A Little Sacrifice
"A Little Sacrifice" (Polish: Trochę poświęcenia) is a short story written by Andrzej Sapkowski and is the fourth story in Sword of Destiny. It tells the tale of star-crossed trans-species lovers: a mermaid named Sh'eenaz and a human duke named Agloval.
Summary
Agloval is the proud and arrogant prince of the seaside region of Bremervoord who is hopelessly in love with the mermaid, Sh'eenaz. The story opens with Geralt having been hired by Agloval to act as a translator since he can speak the Elder Language. Agloval wants Geralt to convince Sh'eenaz to trade her fin for a pair of human legs, abandon her life in the sea, and live with him on land. However Sh'eenaz refuses, and instead insists that it's Agloval who should instead come live with her, despite the fact that he can't breathe underwater. Ultimately, Geralt is unable to negotiate; Agloval argues that his contract is unfulfilled and refuses to pay.
During Geralt and Dandelion's visit in Bremervoord, they encounter the bard Essi Daven, a professional rival of Dandelion. During a betrothal feast where the bards have been hired to perform, Essi quickly develops strong feelings for Geralt, who handles this awkwardly by kissing her despite feeling nothing for her.
Agloval comes to the feast when he learns of the mysterious deaths of a number of local pearl divers. He hires Geralt to investigate. This leads to the discovery of a mysterious race of underwater dwellers. A war is narrowly averted between the people of the sea and their land-based counterparts when Sh'eenaz mysteriously intervenes and stops the conflict.
Later, Essi finds the pretty blue shell Dandelion picked up for her, although it's filled with muck. Surprisingly, it contains a valuable blue pearl. Essi confesses her love for Geralt, but he's unable to reciprocate. He feels discomfited, and wonders if Yennefer feels this uncomfortable with him. Geralt cannot muster any love or otherwise romantic feelings for Essi because she is not Yennefer, although he is unable to bring himself to explain this to her.
Meanwhile, Sh'eenaz has decided in the end to make "a little sacrifice" in the name of love and do as Agloval wishes. She has agreed to give up her tail fin and life as a mermaid in exchange for legs, so that she can live on land and marry her lover.
Geralt, Dandelion, and Essi leave Bremervoord together. But before going their separate ways, Geralt explains his feelings to Essi - that he does not reciprocate her love, and Essi comes to terms with this.
Dandelion composes a new ballad, one of a witcher and a bard who meet on a beach and fall in love at first sight; although Dandelion never performs this song for anyone. Sadly, Geralt and Essi never meet again. Four years later, Essi dies from smallpox in Vizima and Dandelion buries her with her lute and the blue pearl.
Characters
Geralt of Rivia
Dandelion
Essi Daven
Agloval
Sh'eenaz
Mestvin
Zelest
Teleri Drouhard
Gaspard Drouhard
Dalia
Veverka
Akeretta
The Witcher
It is this short story to which the Lady of the Lake refers in Act IV of The Witcher when she mentions to Geralt that she has heard of him "on good authority".