Aen Elle
The Aen Elle (Elder Speech: People of the Alders or Alder Folk), are elves who inhabit another world and are culturally distinct from Aen Seidhe elves. Their ancestral homeworld was at the brink of destruction so both left for new worlds long before the Conjunction of the Spheres. While the former arrived in a new world, the latter arrived on the Continent.
Upon arriving in what would come to be known as the world of the Aen Elle, the Aen Elle encountered one sentient species already living there: the unicorns. They are constantly at war with the unicorns, likely, because the Aen Elle seek to use the natural ability of the unicorns to travel through space and time, powers they possessed themselves before the Conjunction of the Spheres. They frequently used the Wild Hunt to plunder other worlds and kidnap humans to use as servants. Mountains of human bones have been discovered on their world, killed by the Aen Elle, although it is unknown if the humans already lived on this world before the Aen Elle, were brought by the Conjunction of the Spheres or if they were slaves. The King of the Alders, Auberon Muircetach, governed his people from the capital city of Tir ná Lia.
Their language, the Ellylon, is a variant of Elder Speech.
A book about Aen Elle use of magic was written by Geoffrey Monck.
Notable Aen Elle
Auberon Muircetach
Avallac'h
Caranthir Ar-Feiniel
Eredin Bréacc Glas
Ge'els
Imlerith
Nithral
Lara Dorren
Shiadhal
The World of the Witcher
There is a quote from Gerhart of Aelle where he is describing this elven group:
The oldest Aen Seidhe legends speak of another tribe of elves- the Aen Elle, which in Elder Speech means the People of the Alders. Their paths are said to have diverged ages ago, when the Conjunction of the Spheres gave birth to dozens, or perhaps even hundreds, of other worlds. The lord of the Aen Elle was supposedly Auberon Muircetach, known as the king of the Alders, who ruled from the city Tir na Lia. Several fantastical tales of this king exist, but it is not for me to judge here whether there is a kernel of truth in these legends.- Hen Gedymdeith, "The Legends of the Elder Races"
Trivia
The Aen Elle are likely based on the dark elves of Norse mythology and the Unseelie Court of Fairies in Scottish folklore.
Gallery
Aen Elle in The Witcher 3: Wild HuntAen Elle AristocratAen Elle Slave Trader
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 CD PROJEKT RED's The Witcher franchise