Alcoholic beverages
In The Witcher, alcoholic beverages are a subset of alcohol that varies between weak and medium strength and can not be used as potion bases; they are strictly for Geralt's drinking pleasure, to be used as gifts, or are quest requirements.
Beer
Beer is the weakest and also the least expensive of the alcoholic beverages available in The Witcher. It comes in five varieties.
Image
Name
Description
Rating
Buy
Sell
 
Cintrian Faro
"Syrup-sweetened beer, favored by Cintrian seamen."
 
Kaedwenian Stout
"Dark beer from Kaedwen."
 
Redanian Lager
"An excellent beer brewed from Redanian barley."
 
Rivian Kriek
"Cherry beer brewed in Rivia."
 
Viziman Champion
"Vile beer brewed in the capital city of Temeria."

Mead
Mead, as a medium-strength alcoholic beverage, is slightly stronger and more valuable than beer. It comes in two varieties.
 
Mahakaman mead
"Considered to be the dwarves' greatest contribution to world culture." The gravedigger is partial to this drink.
 
Sodden mead
"Mead produced by the beekeepers of Sodden." Also one of the drinks that Erkin von Blunt enjoys.

Wine
Wine, another medium-strength alcohol, is often used as a gift or means of persuasion. It comes in four varieties.

 
Beauclair White
"Thought by many to be the most exquisite white wine in the world."

Mettina Rosé
"Marvelous wine with a rich bouquet."

Toussaint Red
"This wine from the princedom of Toussaint is thought by many to be the most exquisite red wine in the world."

Very Old Wine
"This wine has matured for a very long time and connoisseurs will certainly find it enjoyable. Can be used as a potion ingredient during meditation.

Quest alcohol
Some quests require Geralt to find alcohol for someone or bring alcohol somewhere, like to Shani's party.

Grandma's cordial
"Probably kicks like a mule." Quest item for Shani's party (only required if Geralt invites Siegfried).

Mettina Rosé
"Marvelous wine with a rich bouquet." Quest item for Shani's party.

Medium strength alcohol
Any medium strength alcohol to use for a drinking contest with Erkin von Blunt. This is an unofficial quest item.

Very Old Wine
"This wine has matured for a very long time and connoisseurs will certainly find it enjoyable." Quest item for Conrad, which can be sold. It can also be incorporated into potions: use uncertain.