Ard Skellig
Ard Skellig (Elder Speech: High Skellig, Upper Skellig or Greater Skellig) is the largest of the six islands in the Skellige archipelago. There, Crach an Craite reigns from his fortress, Kaer Trolde, under which is a large town.
By 1272, the island was divided with half being in the hands of Clan an Craite and second in those of jarls from the Clan Drummond, with the two clans being eternal enemies totally hating the fact they have to be neighbors.
Description
From The Lonesome World Guide to Ard Skellig:
What time of year is the best for visiting Ard Skellig? Any time. To whom is such a sojourn recommended? To anyone who seeks adventure, craves miraculous views and adores charming villages. These last Ard Skellig has in spades: it is the most densely-inhabited isle in the archipelago, though this does not mean it lacks virgin forests or untrammeled landscapes. Particularly worthy of a visit are the villages of Rannvaig, Arinbjorn and, last but not least, Holmstein, one of the most important ports in all the Isles.
Anyone lucky enough to enjoy the sea voyage to Arinbjorn will surely notice the majestic lighthouse guiding ships to its harbor. Built at the behest of the famed Jarl Skjordal, it constitutes one of the most fascinating spots on the isle and offers breathtaking views of the entire region.
The most spectacular vista on Ard Skellig, however, must certainly be that of Kaer Trolde, a fortress cut out of the mountain overlooking the bay and serving as home seat to the powerful an Craite clan. According to legend, Grymmdjarr, mythical Skellige hero and founder of Clan an Craite, carved the fortress with his bare hands (for more on this, see the "History" and "Culture" sections).
Locations
Abandoned Sawmill
Ancient Crypt
Arinbjorn
Blandare
Boxholm
Crossroads
Distillery
Druids' Camp
Eldberg lighthouse
Elverum lighthouse
Fayrlund
Fornhala
Fort Etnir
Fort Grymmdjarr
Fyresdal
Gedyneith
Giants' Toes
Grotto
Henge
Holmstein
Holmstein's Port
Kaer Dhu
Kaer Gelen
Kaer Muire
Kaer Nyssen
Kaer Trolde
Kaer Trolde Harbor
Kvalheim Isle
Miners' Camp
Palisade
Rannvaig
Redgill
Rogne
Ruined Inn
Sawmill (an Craite)
Sawmill (Drummond)
Sund
Whale Graveyard
Wild Shore
Yustianna's Grotto
Trivia
The Skellig Islands are on the west coast of Ireland
There is a cottage in Galway called Skellig Ard
Ard means "high" in Irish and Scottish Gaelic
Gallery
Satellite view in-game
References
↑ The Tower of the Swallow
↑ The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt