Aretuza
Aretuza was a magical academy for young ladies situated next to Garstang palace on Thanedd Island, that was founded by Klara Larissa de Winter in 839. It consisted of five floors and seventy-six rooms, including rooms for the students. Among the students were girls from the twelve finest families in Redania.
The central hall was built in a "T" shape, and the long side had narrow and extremely tall stained-glass windows which cost a small fortune, reaching almost to the top of the columns that supported the ceiling. The ceiling was so high it could be difficult to make out the frescoes decorating it, mainly nude statues. The many candles throughout the hall were kept alive with magic, so as to be not affected by the slight drought that could be felt. The Gallery of Glory found in the palace displays artefacts from throughout the history of magic.
The annual fees for a student added up to 1,200 Novigradian crowns, with a 200 crown matriculation fee for new students. Adepts studying there were not permitted to leave the island, were forced to abstain from sex, and visitors were only admitted to the lowest level of the academy, Loxia.
History

Thanedd coup
In June 1267, Vilgefortz summoned a Grand Mage's Conclave to be held on the island, many of the students having been moved away to Loxia beforehand to make room for the visiting mages. On the last night of the month, they met in the palace for a banquet. Throughout the night, a large-scale coup took place between the mages allied with the North and those with Nilfgaard, resulting in numerous mages being killed or captured, such as rector Tissaia de Vries who committed suicide, ultimately spelling the end of the Brotherhood. Rector Margarita Laux-Antille managed to escape with Philippa Eilhart and a few others to Montecalvo.
Witch hunts
 
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
In 1272, the academy was attacked and destroyed after King Radovid V declared war on magic in Redania. Some novices escaped beforehand with Margarita Laux-Antille to Novigrad in hope they could escape with Triss Merigold's help to Kovir. The students left behind were caught and executed by the Redanian soldiers, only a small handful escaping together with Nina Vivero, another rector of the academy. By the time Geralt and Yennefer rescued Margarita from Deireadh prison, all of the novices who accompanied her to Novigrad had been burnt at the stake or executed by other means by the witch hunters. Margarita was deliberately kept alive by Radovid to be the final execution until Geralt and Yennefer's intervention.
End of game canon content.
Notable people

Staff
Aurora Henson
Biruta Icarti
Klara Larissa de Winter
Leticia Charbonneau
Margarita Laux-Antille
Millegarda
Nina Fioravanti
Nina Vivero
Tissaia de Vries
Alumni
Anisse
April Wenhaver
Augusta Wagner
Carla Demetia Crest
Felicia Cori
Ilona Laux-Antille
Jade Glevissig
Keira Metz
Lytta Neyd
Nimue verch Wledyr ap Gwyn
Nora Wagner
Sabrina Glevissig
Tetra Gilcrest
Triss Merigold
Yanna of Murivel
Yennefer of Vengerberg
Yiolenta Suarez
Trivia
Arethusa is a nymph in Greek mythology.
Notes
In Netflix's The Witcher, Aretuza is treated as being on the mainland while only Tor Lara is on the island nearby.
Gallery
Aretuza in Gwent: The Witcher Card GameIn Netflix's The WitcherOverview of Aretuza in Netflix's The WitcherAretuza adeptAretuza paintingAretuza student