Assire var Anahid
It is who we are. All of us belonging to the Lodge, we are like the sphynx. Silent, strategic, perilous, hidden, mysterious, wise and occult. Strong and brave. Fearless, timeless and powerful. Yes, the sphynx should be the symbol of our Lodge.
- Assire's thoughts on the Lodge, The Tower of the Swallow
Assire var Anahid was a mage in the Nilfgaardian Empire's service who hailed originally from Vicovaro. She was a sister of Eviva, aunt of Mawr and Cinead var Anahid, as well as grand-aunt to Cahir Mawr Dyffryn aep Ceallach.
Assire was a founding member of the Lodge of Sorceresses and remained a member along with Fringilla Vigo, also in service of the Empire. She was also known for helping Imperator Emhyr var Emreis with military operations during the Second Northern War. Even though Assire was a Nilfgaardian sorceress, she and Eviva had Nordling blood. She also owned a black cat called Merlin.
Biography

Foundation of the Lodge
In August 1267, Assire was contacted by Philippa Eilhart to join the creation of a new mage organization. At the risk of her own life, as doing such a thing was forbidden for Nilfgaardian mages, she attended the first meeting via teleprojection. On first seeing her, the northern sorceresses were surprised by her unattractive appearance, since northern mages often used glamours while in Nilfgaard it was frowned upon, believing attractiveness was proof of a sorceress' superficial mindset. Assire, along with the other sorceresses, listened to Philippa's proposal to create the Lodge and at the end was asked to invite a second Nilfgaardian sorceress to the next meeting in a couple weeks.
Thus she met with fellow countrywoman and sorceress, Fringilla Vigo. Fringilla was surprised that Assire had changed her style, choosing to wear more fashionable attire, as they prepared to leave to meet with the other sorceresses. It was during the meeting with the Lodge, when they discussed Ciri, that Assire revealed that Emhyr did not have Ciri but an impostor. Assire took advantage of Carthia van Canten's relationship with the head of Nilfgaardian Secret Service, Vattier de Rideaux, and used it to spy on him, reporting any vital information to the Lodge.
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
Death in Loc Muinne and legacy
In 1271, she teleported from Nilfgaard to Loc Muinne and met with ambassador Shilard Fitz-Oesterlen. He presented her Triss Merigold who was under the spell of artefact compression. Assire decompressed Triss and then was immediately restrained and killed by Shilard and Renuald aep Matsen due to her affiliation with the Lodge.
Because of the hazy circumstance surrounding her death, many speculations rose in the Empire, fueling propaganda and political conflicts for several years.
End of game canon content.
At one point in Nilfgaard's history, images of sorceresses were destroyed very diligently and thoroughly leaving no relevant source of their appearance for future. In the 14th century, however, all of the Lodge's members were posthumously rehabilitated and given sainthood and martyrdom.
Appearance and personality
Assire was considered unattractive and "seedy", bearing a pale face with poor complexion, expressionless eyes, thin bluish lips and a somewhat crooked nose; her hair dark and not very fresh-looking. Before joining the Lodge, she wore a strange, conical and slightly crumpled hat, complemented by her shapeless, black, baggy robes, embroidered on the shoulders with a frayed silver thread. The embroidery depicted a half-moon within a circle of stars, the only decoration she wore. She was slim, and her hands marked by yellow spots, her fingernails broken and uneven, due to being bitten. She, however, had a pleasant and melodious voice.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings

Journal entry
This sorceress came from Nilfgaard, or more precisely from Vicovaro - a distinction of extreme importance to the highborn of the Empire, as I can attest from personal experience. That is because the term "Nilfgaardian" is reserved for native residents of the Empire's capital and its immediate vicinity. Assire var Anahid was nothing like stereotypical Nilfgaardian sorceresses – unkempt things in unfashionable attire. On the contrary, she wore well-cut dresses and underlined her beauty with just the right touch of makeup, following the example of our sorceresses in the North.
As momentous events played out in Loc Muinne, Assire was murdered - probably by her own countrymen, possibly on order of the emperor himself. The hazy circumstances surrounding her death gave rise to much speculation in Nilfgaard, fueling propaganda and political conflicts for some time to come.
Notes
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, she's featured on a card that is part of the Nilfgaardian Empire Gwent deck.
It is somewhat unclear why Shillard murdered her instead of simply having her formerly executed, it may have been to prevent a obvious awareness of her death.
Videos
Triss Decompressed (The Witcher 2) Full HD
Gallery
The Witcher 3 gwent card artGwent standalone card art
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 The Lady of the Lake
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 Baptism of Fire
↑ The Tower of the Swallow
↑ 4.0 4.1 The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Assire