Barnabas-Basil Foulty
Barnabas-Basil Foulty was the majordomo of Corvo Bianco, both estate and vineyard, who took care of everything and oversaw any work being done.
He plays any gwent deck and at any difficulty level, making him a great opponent to practice against. The first time he is beaten, the player will receive 1000.
Biography
Barnabas-Basil Foulty came from a long line of majordomos, taking after both his father and grandfather. However, the one to start this familial tradition was his great-aunt, who had apparently been a hard and focused woman and worked her way up from chambermaid to majordomo and taking the rest of the family down the same path.
As such, Barnabas had been a majordomo for most of his life, having served at the Kniebihly family manor and for Admiral Rompally in Nazair, before becoming the majordomo of Corvo Bianco in Toussaint.
Journal entry
Barnabas-Basil Foulty, the majordomo of Corvo Bianco, was a gentleman's gentlemen if there's ever been one. His whole life he had served distinguished nobles - the Kniebihly family, for example, or Admiral Rompally, for another – for he would never tolerate an employer who detracted from his personal dignity. Since Barnabas-Basil remembered the times of Monsieur Bolius and Baron Rossell, he was a wellspring of anecdotes about the vineyard's past. He knew every corner and every secret of Corvo Bianco. An excellent administrator, he offered a wealth of good advice concerning the modernization and management of the estate.
Geralt could not have hoped for better help. One could even say that, by entrusting Corvo Bianco to the hands of that marvelous majordomo, Anna Henrietta had given the witcher the most beautiful present he'd ever received, for a home without someone capable to care for it is no home at all.
Associated quests
The Beast of Toussaint
No Place Like Home
The Hunger Game
Trivia
His name is most likely a reference to Basil Fawlty, the main character played by John Cleese in the 1970s sitcom Fawlty Towers.
Barnabas-Basil Foulty has the same voice actor as Dethmold in The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings.