Battle of Brenna
The Battle of Brenna is one of the most famous battles of the Second Nilfgaard War. It was the turning point for the Northern Kingdoms who, up until that point, had been losing rather badly to the invading Nilfgaardian Empire and its allies. The Northern victory at Brenna paved the way to the eventual Peace of Cintra to be signed the following month.
Participants
Aggressors:
Nilfgaard
Scoia'tael
Deserters from Vissegerd's army (likely)
Defenders:
Redania
Temeria
Aedirn
Mahakam
Kaedwen
Verden
Cidaris
Brugge
Cintra (volunteers)
Free Company
Dramatis Personae
Nilfgaard:
Menno Coehoorn (commander-in-charge) †
Elan Trahe
Rhetz de Mellis-Stoke †
Markus Braibant †
Lamarr Flaut †
Kees van Lo †
Ramon Tyrconnel †
Liam aep Muir Moss
Tibor Eggebracht †
Devlin aep Meara
Sievers
Affan Hillergrand
Ouder de Wyngalt †
Yaevinn
Isengrim Faoiltiarna
Toruviel
Iorveth
Ffion var Gaernel
Northerners:
John Natalis (commander-in-charge)
King Foltest
Bronibor †
Kobus de Ruyter †
Adam Pangratt
Julia Abatemarco
Lorenzo Molla
Andy Biberveldt
Hans of Cidaris
Vernon Roche
Tara Hildebrandt
Didi Hofmeier
William Hardbottom
Aubry †
Anzelm Aubry †
Yarpen Zigrin
Dennis Cranmer
Zoltan Chivay
Munro Bruys
Sheldon Skaggs
Coën †
Daniel Etcheverry
Papebrock
Frontino †
Blenheim Blenckert
Zyvik
Jarre
Melfi †
Deuslax
Joachim von Gratz
Norman Sador
Gardener
Ekhart Henessy
Others:
Milo Vanderbeck
Marti Södergren
Shani
Iola the Second
Summary of battle
 
For their initial incursion, Nilfgaard sent the heavily armed Alba Division. After some success on the battlefield, Alba had reached the center of the Temerian Army and was stuck there. The Nilfgaardian soldiers' heavy armour restricted their movements making them easy targets for the pikes and spears of the Temerians. Ultimately the Temerian infantry prevailed.
Menno Coehoorn responded to this attack by bringing in his own troops (the Deithwen cavalry and a heavy battalion, Ard Feainn) and assaulted the enemy lines above Golden Pond, where the troops from Brugge had made their stand. The troops from Brugge managed to fend off the Nilfgaardians for a while, but their morale was low and their weapons inferior. Fortunately the Free Company arrived with much needed help, and the enemy troops were stopped, but many men were lost on both sides.
Nevertheless, Nilfgaard was still close to breaking through to the front, so the Free Company and troops from Mahakam joined the fray and took on Ard Feainn, managing to push them back. Seeing this, Field marshal Coehoorn sent in the elven Vrihedd brigade, to try and divide the Temerian and Redanian armies. Their hope was to break through to the front before the dwarves and other reinforcements arrived to bolster the nordlings. They managed to do that, and the Nordling army panicked.
In response, King Foltest and John Natalis sent in Bronibor's and Blenckert's troops from Redania.
Field marshal Coehoorn gathered his remaining troops (the Nauzicaa and 7th Daerlan brigades) and attacked the location where the elves were. He didn't count on Bronibor's infantry fighting so bravely against a larger foe. On the left flank, Nilfgaard's army was in ruins, troops fighting at the center front were losing to the Nordling armies. Nauzicaa was surrounded and destroyed and 7th Daerlan brigade were defeated by PFI and by the Free Company. The entire Nilfgaardian Army was either defeated or surrounded. Menno Coehoorn was killed trying to escape from battle by Zoltan Chivay's company.
Order of Battle
Northern Kingdoms (43,000 troops including an additional army from Mahakam)
Military of Temeria
Poor Fucking Infantry
Free Company
Royal Redanian Army
Aedirnian Army
Kaedwenian Army
Dun Banner
Mahakam Volunteer Army
Volunteers from Cintra and Skellige
Rest of army not described
Nilfgaard (46,000 troops including elves)
3rd Army:
Alba Division
Deithwen Division
Ard Feainn Division
two unnamed cavalry divisions
4th Cavalry Army:
Venendal Division
Magne Division
Frundsberg Division
2nd Vicovaro Brigade
7th Daerlan Brigade
Nauzicaa Brigade
Vrihedd Brigade
Notes
Maps supplied with The Witcher and generally any maps available regarding the Witcher series inaccurately locate the site of Brenna.
Videos
Witcher Tales The Battle of Brenna
Gallery
Munro, Zoltan and Figgis fightingNauzicaa Brigade chargeTemerian infantrymen clashing with Vrihedd BrigadeMahakam Volunteer Army