Beauclair
Beauclair is the capital city of Toussaint surrounding the Palace of Beauclair. It was probably built when Peter Faramond reconstructed the palace and Duchess Adela Marta became the first lady of it.
Traders, vineyard operators and other travelers say the city is like a charmed place, pushing people to love and drink and discouraging to leave the capital.
Notable people
Monarchs 
Adela Marta
Carolina Roberta
Raymund
Anna Henrietta
Aristocracy
Clarissa
Amadis de Trastamara
Jacqueline
Veronique
Notturna
Palmerin de Launfal
Milton de Peyrac-Peyran
Others
Artorius Vigo
Fringilla Vigo
Sebastian Le Goff
Reynart de Bois-Fresnes
Blood and Wine expansion
 
In the final expansion for The Witcher 3, Beauclair is presented as a sizable city on the shores of a nearby lake called Seidhe Llygad. The city is very vibrant, colorful, and, because of its centralized position, can be clearly seen from almost every place in the duchy. Although the city is not as large as Novigrad, it's divided into three districts, only one being walled. The Ducal Palace, renowned for its grandiose majesty, stands at the western edge of the city and is framed by the imposing Mount Gorgon. The city is protected by Knights-Errant and Toussaint Guard.
Locations
Beauclair Palace
Beauclair Port
Coopers' Gate
Dulevant Gate
Harbor Gate
Hauteville
Lassommoir
Lebioda's Gate
Metinna Gate
Nilfgaardian Embassy
Palace Gardens
San Sebastian
The Gran'place
Trivia
The name is coined from a portmanteau of two French words, beau and clair. It can then be roughly translated as "beautiful clear".
Notes
Antoinette in The Witcher, as well as her family, hails from Beauclair, made apparent by her (French) accent.
The people of Beauclair are called Beauclairois, as mentioned by an Old pamphlet.
In the games, Beauclair first appeared in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt short trailer, A Night to Remember, though it wouldn't be explorable until the Blood and Wine expansion.
Gallery
Satellite view in Blood and Wine expansionGwent standalone card
References
↑ The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt