Blood Run
Blood Run is a main quest in the Blood and Wine expansion and the shortest one, as it only requires a fight with The Beast of Beauclair before ending.
Walkthrough
The quest starts right where the The Beast of Toussaint has ended. After deducing that Milton is hiding in the Greenhouse, Geralt goes there with Anna Henrietta. However, he is too late as the The Beast of Beauclair has already killed him, but a chase ensues. After Geralt chases the Beast to an empty warehouse, a short conversation starts between the two, and the fight begins.
Note: You can lose the fight, however you won't earn any experience then.
The Beast is a tough opponent: he will teleport around and try to stab Geralt in the back, and he can also block and dodge attacks himself. Try to dodge attacks after he teleports and then counterattack. Quen with Active Shield works well during the fight as, while this is a fast-paced fight, the attacks of the Beast aren't very strong thus the shield will not break with just one hit.
Regis will appear to interrupt the end of the fight, and the Beast will flee. Regis will explain that the Beast's name is Dettlaff and that it was Dettlaff who helped him regenerate after his "death." Regis will assert that Dettlaff would not be doing what he is doing if he didn't have a good reason. Soon Knights appear, and Regis has to run away, but not before telling Geralt where they can meet. After a short conversation with the Knights, the quest ends.
Journal entry
When word of yet another murder reached the tourney participants, panic broke out among them. Geralt, affected by no such emotion, remained on the killer's tail as they rushed helter-skelter through the streets of Beauclair. The witcher finally cornered the murderer in an old, abandoned storehouse.
I do not know, nor do I know of, a single soul more experienced than Geralt in his profession. To surprise the witcher takes incredible guile, yet the murderer sowing terror throughout Toussaint managed just that. The witcher caught up to the killer, there was a brief exchange, then a fight most fierce ensued. I cannot say how the duel would have ended had our old friend Regis not appeared and intervened. Thus, Geralt's first confrontation with the Beast went unresolved.
Objectives
Fight the Beast.
Notes
In order to obtain the Hare Mask you have to return to the greenhouse immediately—otherwise the body (and the mask) will no longer be there.
At the warehouse, a Purchasing Brief and a Love letter (up a ladder) can be found. They are not significant but do provide little references towards the The Rocking Horse toyshop, which is later revealed as Dettlaff's hideout.