Cat (potion)

The Witcher
"Cat is said to have been the first potion created specifically for witchers. The concoction allows witchers to pursue monsters into their lairs, including dark caves, ruins and crypts, because it augments vision to pick up additional wavelengths of light. To prevent blinding, the imbiber's pupils automatically narrow when in bright light. This is possibly the potion most commonly used by witchers."
Cat potion grants vision in total darkness, a very handy ability in crypts and caves, or just badly lit interiors.
Source
Triss gives this formula at the end of the Prologue when Geralt asks her about the sorcerer who attacked the lab.
The Book of the Swallow
Receiving this potion from the druids in Chapter V, during The Green March will unlock the formula if you did not have it already.
Notes
Cat is quite possibly the potion referred to in the Alchemy section of the in-game Journal entry for Witchman.
An albedo-dominant Cat potion apparently doesn't increase toxicity.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Geralt begins the game with two Cat potions as well as the formula.
Journal entry
Cat is one of the potions witchers use most often. After imbibing it, the witcher is able to see in total darkness and will avoid being surprised by any nocturnal creatures. The potion allows its user to see both living creatures and those made of inanimate matter, even through walls.
Cat slightly disrupts perception, however, as a result of which its user deals less damage to monsters. The Rook potion can be used to alleviate this side effect.
Potion causes minor intoxication when imbibed.
The Cat potion is recommended before entering a cave or a crypt, and before a midnight stroll through dangerous terrain.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
Cat returns as a potion in the third game. Three of these potions can be crafted at any one time and placed in the consumables slot.
Geralt has the formula to brew this potion from the moment he arrives in White Orchard.
Crafting Requirements 
Dwarven spirit× 1 Dwarven spirit × 1
Berbercane fruit× 4 Berbercane fruit × 4
Water essence× 2 Water essence × 2
Notes
Since the "next-gen" Patch 4.0, the potion also increases critical hit chance.
Prior to the Blood and Wine expansion release (unofficially patch 1.21), it had a four times longer duration of 240 seconds.
See also
Enhanced Cat
Superior Cat
Notes
In the short story, "The Witcher", Cat seems to be one of the potions Geralt drinks during his night with the striga.