Cave troll liver
Cave troll liver is an alchemy ingredient in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt that can be dismantled into monster liver and monster blood. It is needed to craft the following items:
Superior cursed oil
Enhanced ogroid oil
Superior ogroid oil
Enhanced relict oil
It is an exclusive drop from rock trolls (rabid ones count, but ice trolls don't), and all of them are guaranteed to drop it. Thus, while they don't appear in infinite numbers, it is still possible to obtain all 4 required even if Geralt takes the peaceful route with trolls during all quests.
Notes
3 can be found as part of the unmarked quest Farting Trolls.
There's a rabid rock troll slightly east of the stone ruins in the forest (green on map) just southeast of Kaer Muire. The troll is outside around a hill.
A relatively low level 10 rabid rock troll will appear at the bridge southwest of the Crossroads in southern Velen, upon the next visit after the bandit camp there is cleared.
One rabid rock troll can be found in the monster den northwest of the Border Post, however you will have to fight the nekkers guarding the entrance before you can reach it.
There is a rabid rock troll encountered when first reaching the Trail to Yngvar's Fang fast travel point.
During the day, a rabid rock troll may appear at the drowner nest south of Ard Skellig's Crossroads. This happens after you have cleared and destroyed the drowner monster nest there and then meditated until 8 am the following day. Then the troll will appear.
There's a cave about about halfway and north of the road westward from Harviken, with both a rabid rock troll and an ice troll inside. The cave entrance is just slightly northwest from the third pillar with a torch on the path. The ice troll of course isn't important (and actually doesn't drop anything), but both are bugged by other monsters on the surface above and may sometimes be found dead because of this, having been killed through the cave roof.
Bart, if killed during Blindingly Obvious, doesn't drop any loot and so isn't a possible source.