Chort
Chort (Polish: Czart) is a relict monster that appears in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt.
A bestiary entry can be obtained by reading Beasts of the Tukaj Foothills.
Quick Answers
What is the significance of the Chort in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt?
						In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, Chort is a formidable relict monster, smaller yet as lethal as its kin, fiends and bumbakvetches. Vulnerable to Devil's Puffball and Relict oil, its significance is underscored in the 'Berengar's Blade' quest. The Chort's character draws from Slavic folklore, embodying a malevolent demon akin to the Christian devil.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How does the size of a Chort compare to other monsters in The Witcher universe?
						In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, Chorts are relict monsters that are smaller in size compared to fiends and bumbakvetches. However, their smaller stature does not diminish their danger. Residing in ancient, dark woods, Chorts are recognized as some of the most perilous monsters.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What dangers does a Chort present to a Witcher?
						Chorts pose a significant threat to witchers with their speed, brute strength, and rapid healing abilities. They attack their prey by pummeling, clawing, and smashing with their arms, and charge with uncontrollable speed. Direct combat is not recommended for a witcher, as chorts are not weak to fire but highly vulnerable to burns.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How can one obtain a bestiary entry for the Chort in The Witcher 3?
						To gain a bestiary entry for the Chort in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, players need to read 'Beasts of the Tukaj Foothills'. This provides insights into the Chort's traits and battle strategies.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What are the stats for a Chort in Witcher 3 and how do they translate to DND?
						In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, Chorts are relict monsters characterized by their speed, brute strength, and rapid healing. Despite being smaller than fiends, they are dangerous adversaries. They employ their arms for pummeling, clawing, and smashing prey, and can charge with remarkable speed. Translating this to DND, Chorts would have high strength, dexterity, and constitution stats, along with abilities for rapid healing and potent melee attacks.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Chort","mainEntity":}
Bestiary entry
Chorts are smaller than fiends, true. But still big enough to kill.– Agnes Thistle, herbalist from the Black Forest.
Chorts are the somewhat smaller kin of fiends and bumbakvetches. Yet any witcher who thinks their diminutive stature means they present no danger commits a grave error – the kind that can end his career permanently. These denizens of dark and ancient woods are some of the most dangerous monsters known to man.
Legends often mistake chorts for sylvans, ascribing to them the ability to speak, stand on two legs, gobble up cabbage, play pranks and work mischief around the household. The arrival of a true chort in a region soon puts an end to such tales. The creatures do not speak, at best communicating with each other through grunts, snorts and moans. They get about on four legs and as for their "mischief"... they destroy farmsteads, devouring anything that can be devoured, including cabbage, if such is available, but also extending to poultry, pork, the family dog and then the family itself.
Chorts fight with little finesse, running straight towards their opponent and trying to knock him to the ground with the force of their charge. After downing their foe they bite, kick and strike with their claw-tipped paws. Due to their size and four-legged posture, they are mostly unperturbed by the force of the Aard Sign, and the regenerative powers of their body allow any wounds they receive to heal at a rapid pace.
Combat tactics
Chorts are speed and brute strength personified, rivaled only by fiends among relicts. They use their arms to pummel, claw, and smash their prey. They also charge with such speed they can barely control themselves as they smash head first into their unfortunate victims.
A stand-up fight against a chort is not an option, even for a witcher. Use their size and speed against them: bait them to charge, roll aside, and hope they run headlong into something they can't just charge through. While they recover from this mishap, you can freely cut into their flanks.
A less direct tactic involves using Devil's Puffball bombs to poison the chort. If you can drag it through the toxic fumes, it will breathe in the poison and ideally, help resolve the fight sooner. Although, not weak to fire itself, it is very weak to being burned.
Associated quest
Berengar's Blade
Trivia
The chort is a malign demon that is widely known in Slavic folklore. It is the pagan equivalent of the devil from Christianity.
Videos
The Witcher 3 Howler the Chort Boss Fight (Hard Mode)
Gallery
Gwent: The Witcher Card Game card artIn Wild Animals
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Chort