Cloud Giant
The Cloud Giant only appears in the Blood and Wine expansion.
Bestiary entry
Many things fall from the sky other than rain and snow. Frogs, for example... And the Cloud Giant.
— Sibald "Fang" Faalde, shepherd from Fox Hollow.
The Cloud Giant is most likely a degenerated illusory being. He is an inhabitant of the castle in the sky in the Land of a Thousand Fables. This land was abandoned and left untended for years, during which time it began to rot, fester and degrade.
The Cloud Giant was most likely meant to be a pleasant-natured strongman who would carry the duke's young daughters on his shoulders and never grow tired. When he became degenerated and overgrown, however, he turned into a dangerous monster.
After Jack stole his goose that laid golden eggs, the Cloud Giant decided in the future anyone who climbed onto his cloud would be tossed off, without a word of warning.
Unobtainable, only present in the game files:
The Cloud Giant resembles a clumsy, overgrown human and appears to be capable of reason, though he says nothing and does not seem too interested in any other form of communication.
One gets the impression he has a musical bent. He displays a fascination with gold, which he does not, however, seem to spend or exchange for anything useful.
The Giant is slow and rather sluggish, though he does have decent reflexes and is quite observant. He attacks without warning, using whatever happens to be at hand.
He has learned to use his natural surroundings, meaning the cloud on which he lives, to aid him while fighting: he will jump inside the cloud and pop out in an entirely different place, surprising his opponent.
The Cloud Giant is immune to most of the Signs. He can be hurt by burning, but the Axii Sign will in no way hinder him. He's vulnerable to blows from a sword and thunderbolts.
Combat tactics
The Cloud Giant is an ogroid and is thus susceptible to ogroid oil which increases the damage dealt against him. The Igni sign in addition to Dancing Star bombs may also be used to exploit this monster's weakness to fire.
The Cloud Giant has the ability to disappear into the clouds below and then suddenly reappear for a surprise attack. Thus, frequent dodging is recommended, as well as ample use of the Quen sign for protection against these sudden attacks in case a dodge is poorly timed.
There are four cage "beacons" on this battlefield. Occasionally they will be struck with lightning and remain in a "charged" state. If the Giant's leaping attack strikes a charged beacon, he will be electrocuted and stunned for a considerable amount of time allowing players to get close and deal strong hits without any retaliation. The Giant will eventually compose himself after 15-20 seconds. Beacons are randomly struck by lightning during the course of the battle and each beacon can be struck multiple times (i.e. players have more than three chances to bait the Giant into attacking a charged beacon)
Alternatively, the Cloud Giant can also be instantly killed with a single crossbow bolt to the eye, even if the Giant has full health, similar to Golyat, though it needs to be quite precise. The Lightning Reflexes ability allows you to slow time up to 45% while aiming the crossbow, depending on level, and the Trick Shot ability gives you one more shot before reloading. Finally Northern Wind can allow you to freeze the Cloud Giant in place, all making it easier to hit his eye.
Associated quest
Beyond Hill and Dale...
Gallery
