Cyclops
Cyclops is an ogroid creature in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt.
A bestiary entry can technically be obtained by reading An Ancient Ballad, which however never appears during gameplay.
Bestiary entry
How about this... we take a big stake, sharpen its tip, jam it in the cyclops' eye – then sneak out of the cave disguised as sheep. How's that not a good idea?– Odess Thaka, traveler. Died tragically on Spikeroog
Cyclopses can easily be recognized by the single eye located in the center of their foreheads. If for some reason that is not visible, other tell-tale signs are their enormous size, incredible strength and a seething hatred for all humans.
Unobtainable without reading the book:
Evidence suggests cyclopses can live for an incredibly long time. The one well-preserved specimen whom scholars have examined and documented – a body found in 1112 and taken to Oxenfurt specialists – was over three hundred years old at the time of its death. The remains of this specimen could until recently be seen in the Academy's zoological museum, but they were removed from display after students tried to dress the cyclops in a toga, damaging it significantly in the process.
As in the case of giants, one can only guess at the strong and weak points of a cyclops. Its heft alone precludes effective use of the Aard Sign, while its enormous physical strength would make its blows particularly deadly. Cyclopses are most likely vulnerable to ogroid oil. As monsters with relatively well-developed minds, they might also fall under the influence to the Axii Sign.
Combat tactics
Cyclopses go where they want; even a witcher should move to the side if a cyclops is charging forward. The strongest witchers cannot parry or block any punch or slap delivered by a cyclops, and a mere hop backwards may not be enough to stay out of reach. Roll to the side or behind a cyclops to evade their attacks and reach their vulnerable flanks.
Do not stand in one place when fighting a cyclops. They rarely flinch from anything a witcher can do to them, so they keep trying to fight no matter how many cuts from a silver blade they take. If a cyclops raises both hands in the air, avoid being anywhere close to the front of it. The resulting ground-pound flattens even the toughest warriors.
If you're at a longer range Cyclopses can also leap into the air, knocking over anyone or anything too close to where they land. Alternatively they may do a "wild rush" charging at you swinging their arms madly while roaring; this in particular is almost impossible to avoid as the Cyclops will change its direction mid-charge to try to intercept you if you try rolling out of the way. Axii can temporarily confuse a cyclops, giving the witcher time to recuperate while the creature rages at something else. Getting close to a cyclops is dangerous, but still a necessity for slaying one. The Yrden Sign can help witchers do more work every time they get within sword range of these monsters. Overall, Quen is probably your best choice for handling them.
Associated quests
Hard Times
Knight for Hire 
Practicum in Advanced Alchemy
Scavenger Hunt: Bear School Gear Upgrade Diagrams - Part 4
Scavenger Hunt: Griffin School Gear Upgrade Diagrams - Part 4
The Witcher: Monster Slayer
Aside from the standard cyclops, there are 2 other variations of the monster: Farbaut and Grimnir. They differ only in appearance and difficulty level. Farbaut's head is covered by a cloth, while Grimnir wears a metal helmet. The cyclops is a common monster, Farbaut is rare and Grimnir is a legendary one. According to the bestiary, Grimnir is rather intelligent for a cyclops. All three kinds of the cyclops are vulnerable to fire and steel.
Trivia
The bestiary entry in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt is a direct reference to Homer's Odyssey.
Gallery
Gwent: The Witcher Card Game card artA Farbaut trophy in the bestiaryA Grimnir trophy in the bestiary
Videos
The Witcher 3 "Old Speartip" the Giant Boss Fight (Hard Mode)