Dun Banner
Dun Banner was a Kaedwenian light cavalry brigade from Ban Gleán and part of King Henselt's army. They were generally easy to recognize by their outfits which included cloaks and beaver hats.
They took part in the Battle of Brenna during the Second Nilfgaard War.
Members
Bode (decurion)
Digod (centurion)
Hrafhir (skald)
Kraska
Stahler
Zyvik (lance corporal)
Vandergrift
Ekhart Henessy (standard bearer)
Fredegard
Gondor
History
In early 1266, a Dun Banner patrol warned and later saved Geralt of Rivia, Triss Merigold, Ciri and Yarpen Zigrin's company from the Scoia'tael hiding and attacking their soldiers in the woods. The Dun Banner had already known about the Scoia'tael attacking the company, as Henselt had organized it personally.
Second Northern War
In July 1267, after the fall of Aedirn in the Second Northern War, and Henselt's allegiance to Nilfgaard, the Dun Banner, along with five brigades, were sent to the Upper Aedirn, the long disputed land between the two kingdoms, to occupy. Three days later, they arrived and marched all the way up to the edge of the Dyfne river, prepared to meet the Nilfgaardian advance should tensions sour.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings

Journal entry
The Dun Banner rose to fame during the last wars with Nilfgaard. A Kaedweni light cavalry regiment, initially it patrolled the area around Ban Gleán. Called to the front, it proved its mettle during the incursion into Upper Aedirn, but it was the chroniclers of the Battle of Brenna who made the unit famous. Because history likes to repeat itself, several years later the Dun Banner once again led Henselt's foray into Aedirn. This time, it suffered a crushing defeat, at the hands of an ostensible ally, no less - the sorceress Sabrina Glevissig. Decimated beyond resurrection, the unit was never reformed, and its characteristic cloaks and beaver-skin caps, which once bred terror in the hearts of Kaedwen's foes, became a thing of the past, though they remain identifying marks by which the unit's few surviving former members recognize one another.
Notes
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, there is a gwent card that resembles a medic of the Dun Banner, which is a part of the Northern Realms deck.
Gallery
The Dun BannerDun Banner Heavy Cavalry in Gwent: The Witcher Card GameDun Banner Heavy Cavalry in Gwent: The Witcher Card Game 0.8.13