Ebbing
Ebbing is one of the largest states dependent on the Nilfgaardian Empire, though officially operates as an autonomous and self-governing kingdom. Situated at the junction of rivers and bordering the Great Sea, it is known for its marshes and swamps.
Throughout the ages, most of the Nordling cartographers considered Ebbing as the southernmost part of the Continent, claiming that Gemmera and lands further south belong to another landmass. The Nilfgaardians in turn perceived it to be the beginning of the "north", hence the series of conflicts against the Nordlings which began with the annexation of Ebbing were dubbed the "Northern Wars" in Imperial historiography.
History

Early history
The earliest known inhabitants of the Velda delta, one of the major landmarks of the modern-day Ebbing, were the Markee people. They were tough horsemen and winemakers, but at some point in history moved to Metinna.
Some time after the First Landing, Nordlings (and possibly Skelligers) began to settle the land. Most of them chose the sea coast and rivers and occupied with the fishery, while others established salt mines in Venendal. In the 10th or 11th century, Stygga Castle began to be the seat of the witcher School of the Cat and remained so until the kings, feared for their lives, sent the army which slaughtered the witchers over the course of three days.
Nilfgaardian wars
In the 1230s, the kingdom of Ebbing was stuck in a succession crisis. Taking advantage of the endless negotiations, in 1239, the Usurper sent here the Imperial army. Ebbing's military, based on the social status rather than on competence took horrible loses, though mostly the lowborn - the nobles fled the field. Tired of the political chaos, they adapted to Imperial dominance. The birth of the Ebbing quadruplets was talked as far north as Bremervoord.
In 1265, Ebbing rebelled alongside Geso and Maecht, but the rebellion was brutally suppressed by the junior commanders of the Imperial army. Ebbing retained its formal independence, but the real power was held by the emperor, as proved when Dominik Bombastus Houvenaghel was given lordship over Venendal and Neveugen.
Northern wars
In July 1267, at the beginning of the Second Northern War, Ebbing sent mercenaries to Cintra, to join the Imperial army in the coming conflicts, such as the sack of Vengerberg.
National emblems

Coats of arms
 
The coat of arms and flag for Ebbing is never actually described in the books. Three significant versions were used in adaptations: the first one, depicting a serpent or wyrm, was introduced in Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni; the second one, with four rivers symbolizing Velda, Lete, Arete, and Sylte, was created by homebrew heraldist Mboro and used in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt; while the third one, depicting a bell on barry Sanguine and Or, appeared in The Witcher Role-Playing Game. The coat of arms in the infobox merges all the three.
Geography and climate
Located beyond Dol Angra, it borders the Great Sea to the west, Metinna to the north with the river Sylte acting as a natural border and Maecht to the east. The kingdom also neighbors Salm, officially a sovereign principality that is de facto dependent on Ebbing.
Most of its territory is characterized by three rivers Velda, Lete, and Arete which crisscross in the land of vast wetlands named Pereplut considered as a hatchery of monsters and diseases. However, the land reclaimed from the swamps is rich and fertile soil, attracting the settlers.
Outside the marshes there are hill chains, considered less fertile but containing mineral deposits such as Venendalian salt and Luverten's gems.
Society and culture
Most of the people live in towns and villages near the sea and in the lands reclaimed from the swamps. The corruption is common and certain members of the elites seem to find pleasures in rather immoral manners.
Notable residents
For a full list of Ebbingers, see Category:Ebbingers.
Royal family
Juan Pablo Vassermiller
Putzi, Gritzi, and Mitzi
Aristocracy
Roegner of Ebbing
Dominik Bombastus Houvenaghel
Matilda de Nementh-Uyvar
Others
Cadfan
Kayleigh
Leo Bonhart
Luthien
Notable locations

Territories, vassal states, and provinces
Pereplut
Salm
 Venendal
Settlements
Claremont
Dun Dâre
Fano
Jealousy
Neveugen
Stygga Castle
Unicorn
Notes
According to a fan article published by one of the authors of the 2nd Edition of Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni, Ebbing was a blend of Nordling and Skelliger cultures. However, lore on the kingdoms was not released along with other content, so whether it was to be true or not in the final guidebook remains unknown.
The origins of Ebbing as being a cultural mix could explain the three different COAs though.