Eithné
Sub-Pages:
Main
Netflix series
"Do you really wish to know?" — Spoilers from the books and/or adaptations to follow!
Brokilon endures thanks to my fight, for trees live longer than men, as long as they are protected from your axes. You talk to me of kings and princes. Who are they? Those whom I know are white skeletons lying ... deep in the forest ... But Brokilon endures (...)
- Eithné to Geralt, p.291-292 in Sword of Destiny (U.S. edition)
Eithné, known as the Silver-Eyed, was the queen of the dryads and ruler of Brokilon. She was famous for her wisdom and implacable stance towards humans. Their attempts to claim the ancient forest for its trees and supposed treasures fostered centuries of conflict. In addition to being loathed by King Viraxas of Kerack, she and King Ervyll of Verden shared a mutual hatred of each other.
She had a "daughter" named Morénn.
Biography
 
As the ruler of Brokilon, she forbade the entry of humans into the forest; her hatred for them was absolute, brooking no exceptions. No matter how they pleaded, begged or threatened, she always gave them the same answer - an arrow to the head.
During the Northern Wars, she supported the Scoia'tael, providing Brokilon as a safe place to retreat, heal and find guides. At the early stages of the second war in July 1267, dryads organized ambushes at unsuspecting scalp hunters from Verden and Kerack who were lured into the forest by Milva, impersonating a "guide".
Around this time, she granted special access to Col Serrai for Geralt of Rivia, who was a friend of the dryads and had been seriously injured by Vilgefortz during the Thanedd coup, though she sent away his aid Triss Merigold. Two weeks later, when Milva returned to the forest and visited Duén Canell, Eithné convinced her to help heal the witcher with Aglaïs.
Appearance and personality
Eithné was short and delicate for a dryad, and had silver hair and eyes that others were said to get lost in, despite their supposed coldness. She was described as old, yet still beautiful.
The Witcher Battle Arena
 
Eithné of Brokilon was one of the playable heroes in the now defunct MOBA and had a lot of interesting weapons, skills, and skins. She was an archer class hero.
Hero Presentation
The Queen of dryads would never side with humans if not for the prize that the Emperor offers. When independence and peace are at stake, it's worth bending both your head and your personal standards. Like all other dryads, Eithne is a master archer, who, aside from normal melee attacks, can damage her opponents from afar with devastating ranged skills. This hero is also a really powerful crowd controller. Eithne's passive skill, Dryad's Sight, makes her shots stronger when the enemies are at least 5,5 meters away.
Thorned Dagger is Eithne's bread and butter ability. It's a high damage, moderately low cooldown skill, that she can use both as an opener to start a fight, or as a way of finishing off fleeing enemies. It works really well in combination with the dryad's second skill - Path of Thorns.
Path of Thorns is a unique skill that you can literally draw on the screen. Moving your finger on the screen will leave a trail that will produce vines that entrap and damage all enemies in range. This skill is very useful in multiple situations - while engaging, chasing or just to finishing off an opponent. It's also a perfect setup for Eithne's other skills, as it makes aiming much easier.
Piercing Arrow is a skill that's hard to master properly. After 1.5 seconds of delay Eithne releases a powerful shot that travels 30 meters, damaging and displacing all the enemies on its path. It has the longest range of all the skills that are currently implemented in the game.
Skins
One With Nature - €9,99 - 2000
Child of the Moon - €1,99 - 1000
Brokilon's Guardian - €1,99 - 1000
Gwent: The Witcher Card Game
Eithné is a leader in the Homecoming version.
Reward Tree entries
Scroll 1: Even sworn enemies sometimes negotiate, perhaps in the hope of establishing a comromise or truce. But never Eithné, Queen of the Dryads. Her hatred toward humans is unwavering. To their bargains, pleas, cries, threats, her answer is always the same – a well-aimed arrow between the eyes.
Scroll 2: Under Eithné's leadership, humans are never permitted to enter the forests of Brokilon. Well... Almost never. After all, even dryads must procreate somehow.
Scroll 3: For this reason, dryads will kidnap human girls and, occasionally, men in their prime. Their role in dryad society is easy to guess. However, they are then forever banished from the forest once their "duty" is fulfilled... Despite their impassioned pleas to stay.
Scroll 4: Girls who are brought in to swell the dryads' ranks are made to drink from a source known as the Water of Brokilon. It sharpens their senses, strengthens their bodies... And rids them of their memories.
Chest 1: Dryads possess a power allowing them to influence plants to grow in any shape. In this way they construct their fortifications, homes, and palaces. The process is slow, sometimes lasting centuries... Fortunately, dryads are a patient bunch.
Chest 2: The most gifted dryads are able to push this ability further, to create new life-forms from plants, capable of movement... Even rudimentary thought. These beings are known as treants. Few have laid eyes upon them – knowingly, at least. In a dense forest, they are near impossible to spot... And even more difficult to escape.
Chest 3: From time to time, the human leaders of the realms that border Brokilon – Verden, Cidaris, and Temeria – once again resolve to set ablaze the primeval forest and the dryads who dwell within. Up to the wood's edge they transport barrels of tar and straw. However, they are typically abandoned with haste after the first volley of silent arrows is released from behind the wall of trees.
Trivia
Ethniu, or Eithne, is the name of a supernatural being in Irish mythology.
Notes
Eithné appears on a gwent card in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, as a part of the Scoia'tael deck.
In The Hexer TV series, she appears in episode 3, "Człowiek - pierwsze spotkanie".
Gallery
Eithné and MorénnEithné after Morénn's deathEithné's character model in The Witcher Battle ArenaGwent: The Witcher Card Game concept artGwent leader skin frontGwent leader skin backIn The Hexer TV seriesIn Netflix's The Witcher