Ekimma
An ekimma or ekimmara is a type of lower vampire like fleders are. These tend to be more vicious and animalistic.
A bestiary entry can be obtained by reading My Evening with a Vampire.
Quick Answers
What type of vampire is an Ekimma?
						The Ekimma, or Ekimmara, is a lower vampire, akin to fleders, and is known for its vicious, animalistic nature. Contrary to popular vampire depictions, Ekimmas resemble oversized bats and are post-Conjunction creatures, indifferent to garlic, holy water, or religious symbols. They possess the ability to become invisible and reappear.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How does an Ekimma compare to other vampires in terms of viciousness?
						Ekimmaras, a lower vampire type in the Witcher universe, exhibit a higher degree of viciousness and animalistic behavior compared to other vampires. They are known for their exceptional speed and cruelty, capable of delivering powerful blows that can break through the strongest armor. Contrary to popular vampire depictions, Ekimmaras violently shred their victims with their claws and consume the blood from the ground. They also possess a regenerative ability, restoring their health over time.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How can one obtain a bestiary entry for an Ekimma?
						A bestiary entry for an Ekimma, a lower vampire variant, can be acquired by reading 'My Evening with a Vampire'. This book provides insights into the Ekimma's characteristics, often likened to large, ferocious bats.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Ekimma","mainEntity":}
Bestiary entry
Bah, ain't nothing to fear. Ekimmaras, why, they ain't nothing more than overgrown bats.– Anonymous city guardsman's last words
Like other vampires, ekimmaras are not, despite what village gossips might say, undead humans. They are instead post-Conjunction monsters who have no particular feelings about garlic, holy water or religious symbols.
Unlike their portrayals in ballads and legends, they look nothing like handsome, pale aristocrats with charming eastern accents, though, like katakans and nekurats, they do bear a strong resemblance to overgrown bats. They also do not suck blood from the necks of virgins with a delicate, kiss-like bite – they tear them to shreds using long, sharp claws and then slurp the splattered blood off the ground.Ekimmaras are unusually cruel and exceptionally swift. They are able to quickly land blow after blow capable of smashing even the best Mahakaman-made armor into tiny shards. They should be fought with a silver sword, remembering that they can regenerate back health over time. One should thus never attempt to tire them out or, gods forbid, wait for it to bleed to death. Instead, cut then down as quickly as possible and, if possible, burn the body to ash and scatter it to the four winds.
Combat tactics
Ekimmaras are especially dangerous foes due to their ability to regenerate. They can even outlast a witcher using the finest potions. Black Blood potions are an effective way to weaken an ekimmara. If you are stricken by their claws, you will bleed profusely.
That blood can harm the ekimmara and knock it back, allowing you a brief respite from its assault. Dodging is essential when fighting ekimmaras. Their claws cannot be parried, and even if Black Blood is an available witcher brew, it is best to avoid being wounded altogether, if you can help it.
Moon Dust bombs prevent them from teleporting.
Associated quests
Following the Thread
Scavenger Hunt: Griffin School Gear
Notes
"Ekimmaras" is used as the plural word for the species everywhere they are mentioned in the game, including by Geralt, except during Contract: The Mystery of the Byways Murders, where he calls them "ekimmarae" in two separate conversations. This is likely mere oversight, but it may also be that both forms are acceptable.
Trivia
Ekimmu or edimmu was kind of demon from the ancient Sumerian religion. They were envisioned as the ghosts of those who were not buried properly and thought to be completely or nearly incorporeal, "wind" spirits that sucked the life out of the susceptible and the sleeping (most commonly the young).
Videos
The Witcher 3 Sarasti the Ekimmara Vampire Boss Fight (Hard Mode)
Gallery
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt - concept artGwent card artGwent standalone card artGwent card Lacerate
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Ekimmara