Endrega
An endrega, endryag, or endriaga, is a species of insectoid said to resemble a huge lizard. They inhabit the forests in the southern parts of Northern Kingdoms, in areas like the Dank Wilderness.
During the 13th century, endrega numbers dwindled due to the expansion of humans, according to Codringher.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Endregas are creatures encountered in The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings.
Endrega (without a suffix) cease to give XP once killed when Geralt reaches Level 11.
Journal entry
Endregas are forest creatures that resemble arachnids. They are especially fond of flood-plains, as moisture and tall grass suit them. Longer than they are tall, they move about on all fours and are extremely difficult to spot as they lie motionless, awaiting their prey. Like kikimores, endregas are divided into castes, with warriors being most numerous, guards being less common, and queens being a real rarity.
These monsters, like arachnids, hatch from eggs. Impregnated queens lay the eggs in cocoons which hang from trees in areas known as nests. The lesser creatures zealously guard their queens, as colonies depend on them for survival. The queens themselves remain hidden, caring little for what happens to other adult specimens. However, when their nest is threatened, they emerge swiftly and fight ferociously. Thus, to exterminate an endrega colony, one must set fire to its cocoons to lure out and kill the queen.
When fighting an endrega, use the strong style and target the beast's abdomen, where its armor is weakest. Trusting in the toughness of their armor, the creatures often willingly take blows, only to respond with a sudden counter-attack that can be deadly if not evaded or blocked.
Endregas can bleed to death if hit with a blade coated with the appropriate oil. They are also susceptible to all witcher Signs. The monster can easily be tripped up, knocked down or immobilized by a trap. However, the endrega's peculiar metabolism makes it immune to poison.
Associated quest
The Endrega Contract
The Witcher Adventure Game
 
In The Witcher Adventure Game endregas are called endraga.
To defeat them you need:
Sword:2
Shield:3
Failed Sword: Move this monster to an adjacent region.
Failed Sword: Suffer 1 Poisoned Heart.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
Endregas are divided into three types:
Endrega drones
Endrega warriors
Endrega workers
Trivia
Endrega might be based on the endriago, a monster from the Spanish epic novel Amadís de Gaula. The endriago is a chimeric creature born from incest, who possesses a lizard-like shape, a hardened shell, long razor talons and a scorpion tail.
Endrega queens drop Greater vitality mutagens in The Witcher 2.
Endrega drones feature on a Gwent card.
Gallery
EndregaEndrega guardEndrega warriorEndrega queenEndrega cocoonDestroyed cocoon showing broken eggs and what appears to be a partially developed endrega warriorGwent card artGwent standalone artIn The Witcher Role-Playing Game
References
↑ while this name is used in The Tower of the Swallow, in the same book it uses the "endrega" spelling
↑ 2.0 2.1 Time of Contempt
↑ Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
↑ The Tower of the Swallow