Envoys, Wineboys
Envoys, Wineboys is the first main quest in the Blood and Wine expansion.
Appeal to Sir Geralt of Rivia, the Bridge his Crest
Geralt of Rivia,
At the behest of our merciful sovereign, Her Illustrious Grace Anna Henrietta, we have journeyed to the Northern Realms to lay before you our mission. A terrible monster has appeared in the Duchy of Toussaint, a beast that has committed heinous crimes against her Grace's subjects. Only the Most Famous Among Witchers has the ability to destroy the Beast, thus we humbly beseech you to appear in the village of Holloway, where we shall await you in full hope that you will deign to hear of our woes and liberate our land from the clutches of fear.
Your humble servants:
Sirs Palmerin de Launfal and Milton de Peyrac-Peyran
Walkthrough
After completing A Poet Under Pressure, the contract will appear on notice boards and reading it directs you to Stonecutters' Settlement. If you get there early enough, you will witness a mob pleading with two Knights, who will insist on helping them, but later in the game they will simply be staying at one of the huts.
Geralt will recognize the knights as Palmerin de Launfal and Milton de Peyrac-Peyran, who will be happy to see him. However, before anything else, they wish to help the villagers who are being harassed by bandits. You can tell them you will help or convince them to leave the matter as it is. If you decide to help, the bandits will arrive some time later and Palmerin will attempt to convince them to stop their wicked ways. However, the bandits will just mock the Toussaint knights. You will have 2 dialog options, but regardless of which you choose, you will have to fight the bandits.
Whether you fought the bandits or not, Geralt will be presented with Summons from Duchess Anna Henrietta and informed of the troubles in Toussaint. (50) You'll have the option to think about accepting the contract first, but once you agree to help all three will head out for Toussaint and the quest ends.
Journal entry
It was a time when there seemed to be two Geralts. One was a celebrity, at least in certain circles, while the other remained a mercenary who did dirty work for coin. At any rate, both these Geralts happened on a contract of an unusual sort, not least because it marked the start of a new adventure. And this adventure I will gladly relate.
It began in a manner most ordinary, with a notice posted on a board in Velen. The witcher read the notice and set out to see what else he could learn.
In Holloway, the witcher came upon two friends of years long past - Palmerin de Launfal and Milton de Peyrac-Peyran, who had come to Velen as emissaries of their sovereign duchess.
If Geralt helps the knights defeat the bandits:
If you find yourself wondering why these knights errant seemed stuck in this slipshod backwater hamlet in Velen, I hasten to explain - they had decided to wage war on some local bandits. Palmerin, ever eager to resolve crises peacefully, intended to address the robbers, appeal to their sense of decency and thus direct them onto a path of virtue. Geralt expected Palmerin's rhetoric to fall on deaf ears. When the bandits arrived, Palmerin put in a valiant effort, yet ultimately a bloody fight broke out. The witcher assisted the knights from afar to deal with the local rabble. Though this could seem a somewhat unpatriotic act, there is no doubt Geralt's choice was thoroughly justified and that he had taken the moral high ground.
If Geralt dissuades the knights from confronting the bandits:
If you find yourself wondering why these knights errant seemed stuck in this slipshod backwater hamlet in Velen, I hasten to explain - they had decided to wage war on some local bandits. Though it was a course worthy of knights of the errant variety, Geralt managed to dissuade them from pursuing it. For experience had taught him nature bears no void, and a band of hoodlums cut down to a man would soon be replaced by another, possibly of a yet meaner disposition. And after all, the knights did not have their sovereign's leave to remain in Velen indefinitely.
Yet in telling a story, one should never get ahead of oneself. Suffice now to say the knights delivered their message, and the witcher agreed to take on the contract. He then promptly set off for Toussaint in their company to face the Beast that tormented the duchy. And thus the adventure was underway.
Objectives
Look for a new contract on notice boards in Velen.
Meet the knights from Toussaint in Holloway.
If Geralt offers to help defeat the bandits:
Help Palmerin and Milton defeat the bandits.
If Geralt stalls on taking the offer:
Go with Palmerin and Milton to Toussaint.
Notes
Despite the mission objective saying to look for the contract on notice boards in Velen, it also appears at the Seven Cats Inn and Oxenfurt. Perhaps not by accident, both of them are closer to Geralt's location at the time, although fast traveling should make this irrelevant.
Accepting the invitation locks Geralt into the next mission, which officially starts the expansion, so players not yet ready to continue on (i.e., still working on the main story, or concerned Geralt's level isn't high enough) should delay accepting, even though this also delays the rewards for completing the quest.
Bugs
The Toussaintois banner outside the hut, decorations inside it, as well as the three sketches of the beast (on a makeshift table inside) can be seen as soon as access to Velen is unlocked - way before Palmerin and Milton arrive. Amusingly, if Geralt attempts to loot the sketches, a Redanian soldier there will consider it stealing and be upset.
The sketches may not spawn during the final dialogue sequence, leaving Geralt just looking at a tablecloth.
Trivia
Two of the sketches of The Beast of Beauclair are references to creepypasta's Slender Man.