Eredin Bréacc Glas
Sub-Pages:
Main
Netflix seriesRonin
Any last words?
- Eredin to Crach an Craite, The Witcher 3: Wild HuntAudio version: Media:Eredin voice line.ogg
Eredin Bréacc Glas, also dubbed Sparrowhawk by the unicorns, was an Aen Elle elf and commander of an elven cavalry known as the Wild Hunt. As its leader, he was known to most as the King of the Wild Hunt. Eredin was a high ranking general in his world until he killed the king and became his successor.
Quick Answers
What is the significance of Eredin's title, 'King of the Wild Hunt'?
						Eredin's title, 'King of the Wild Hunt', is a testament to his fearsome leadership and the terror he instills in those he targets. As the leader of the Wild Hunt, Eredin personally leads his men on raids, often targeting the Aen Seidhe world and taking many young individuals as slaves. His constant presence and ruthless tactics have earned him a reputation that strikes fear into the hearts of the common folk, leading them to dub him the 'King of the Wild Hunt'. This title signifies not only his position of authority but also the dread and horror associated with his name and the Wild Hunt.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How did Eredin become the leader of the Wild Hunt?
						Eredin, also known as the King of the Wild Hunt, became the leader through his fearless and relentless nature. He often led raids on the Aen Seidhe world, instilling fear in the common folk and earning him the title of the King of the Wild Hunt. His leadership was further solidified when he took control after Auberon's death, appointing Ge'els as his viceroy and choosing Caranthir and Imlerith as his trusted generals. Eredin's primary focus was leading the Wild Hunt, leaving the governing aspects to his appointed viceroy.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What is the story behind the helm of Eredin?
						The helm of Eredin, the King of the Wild Hunt, is a significant part of his terrifying image. It's a skull-shaped helmet made of black steel, designed to inspire fear and reinforce the legend of the Winter Queen and her Wild Hunt. Eredin and his elves wore skeletal armor and skull-shaped helmets to appear as specters, leveraging human legends and superstitions. This fear-mongering tactic was part of Eredin's strategy to secure a sufficient number of slaves, preferably humans, for the Aen Elle in their world.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What role does Eredin play in 'The Witcher: Blood Origin'?
						In 'The Witcher: Blood Origin', Eredin serves as an elf and a captain for Xin'trea's army just before the Conjunction of the Spheres. This significant event transports him into an entirely new world, setting the stage for his future role as the King of the Wild Hunt.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What are some notable characteristics of Eredin as a leader?
						Eredin Bréacc Glas, known as the King of the Wild Hunt, is a leader who is more interested in the pursuit of power and conquest than in the day-to-day governing of his kingdom. He appointed Ge'els as his viceroy to handle state affairs while he led the Wild Hunt. Eredin also demonstrated his leadership by selecting his most trusted generals, Caranthir and Imlerith, to serve key roles within his ranks. His leadership style is characterized by strategic delegation and a relentless pursuit of his goals.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Eredin Br\u00e9acc Glas","mainEntity":}
Biography

Early Life
Despite being a notable strong soldier who was also skilled in magic, not much was known about his younger years.
When King Auberon Muircetach, ruler of the Aen Elle elves, created the Red Riders, he appointed Eredin as their leader and general. Eredin, who at the time could access the Gate of the Worlds, allowing him to travel to different worlds at will, used the Gate and led the Red Riders in raiding many different worlds. Their main objective was to find and secure a sufficient number of humanoid - preferably human - slaves, that could serve the elves. Over time, this made Eredin and his men infamous and feared and they began to use magic to make themselves even more menacing, posing as wraiths. They were clad in rusty skeleton shaped armor and even went as far as altering their voices.
As time went on, they eventually discovered the new homeworld of the Aen Seidhe. However, it was now controlled by humans and since the Aen Elle had a deep sense of contempt for their race and often use them as slaves, the Aen Seidhe world became their primary target with Eredin often leading raids on the world and stealing a great number of young human individuals. People from the continent started to fear the ghostly riders and they gave them a new name - the Wild Hunt. Because Eredin led his men personally, as the lead rider with a crowned helmet, he caused the most fear in the common folk. He became known as the King of the Wild Hunt.
When the Conjunction of the Spheres occurred, the Aen Elle lost control of the Eternal's Gate and lost their ability to travel in great numbers between worlds. This also caused all the elves to be stuck in their world with no access to more slaves and so they began to study the magic of traveling to different realms. However, they were only partially successful and created navigators - specialized mages trained to open portals to different worlds, though they could only transport a small group of riders. Due to this, the riders used spectral forms in place of physical and traveled in the skies as a cavalcade of specters.
Recent activity
Around 1267, the Wild Hunt sensed a certain individual with very powerful elder blood, who turned out to be the young princess of Cintra, Cirilla. As elder blood was crucial for regaining access to the Gate of the Worlds, Eredin set his sights on capturing her as he wanted to resume his invasions of other realms. The Wild Hunt first tried to catch her near the city of Gors Velen but this failed due to the interference of Yennefer of Vengerberg. Much later, Ciri was caught in a bind as she tried to escape Leo Bonhart and decided to enter the Tower of the Swallow as she saw no other way out of the situation. Unbeknownst to her, the tower contained a portal that would lead her to the world of the Aen Elle. Leo Bonhart attempted to capture her before she went into the tower but was confronted by Eredin and the rest of the Wild Hunt in wraith form.
Eredin's fellow elf Avallac'h gave Ciri an ultimatum upon her arrival to the other world; either she lay with their king and give them a child that would reintroduce the Elder blood to the elves - thus giving them access to the Gate again - or be trapped for the rest of her life in the world of the Aen Elle. Ciri protested and called this blackmail, requiring time to make her decision. Eredin was eventually encountered by Ciri and Avallac'h when he and his red riders chased away some unicorns from the two during a patrol. She was then formally introduced to him for the first time. He quickly pointed out that he does not think highly of her, declaring that he saw her as a gold nugget in a pile of compost. Despite voicing impatience in waiting for Ciri's compliance, Eredin followed Avallac'h's plan as he stated that the matter is Avallac'h's specialty and responsibility. Ciri eventually reluctantly agreed to the deal that Avallac'h had presented her and tried to fulfill her end of the bargain but Auberon was very old and despised humans, considering them little more than animals. Because of this, he was unable to perform and produce a child with Ciri, even though he attempted to go through with it multiple times. Eredin eventually gave an aphrodisiac to his king and it ended up poisoning him, resulting in his death. Whether this was the result Eredin wanted is open to debate, but it served his ambitions well since he became the new king of the Aen Elle.
With their ruler dead, chaos spread in the palace and Ciri attempted to escape by boat. Eredin went after her, jumping onto the boat and attempting to stop her from leaving, but Eredin was eventually knocked off and Ciri managed to escape the Aen Elle world thanks to the unicorns. The Wild Hunt later pursued Ciri in another world, but she once again managed to evade them with the help of the unicorn Ihuarraquax.
Later, Eredin haunted Ciri in her dreams while she rested in a French tavern, telling her that he would wait for her in The Spiral - a place he said she would eventually enter after her long journey through space and time.
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
King of the Aen Elle
Once Eredin returned, he was either proclaimed king or proclaimed himself the new king, having made sure nobody knew about his role in Auberon's death. It is claimed by Avallac'h that Eredin went as far to have eliminated almost every individual who knew that he had killed Auberon.
Eredin consolidated his power in the world of the Aen Elle and made a few changes. Because he had no interest in the governing aspects that come with being a king, he appointed Ge'els to serve as his viceroy and take care of the state while he was leading the Wild Hunt. He also chose two elves as his most trusted generals - Caranthir as a chief navigator and Imlerith as a commander of the riders.
The Aen Elle world soon faced a new and dangerous threat known as the White Frost - a deadly phenomenon that caused an eternal winter, killing off everything that once inhabited the world, and was supposed to be the eventual end of every known world. Eredin decided the only way to escape the apocalypse would be to move the Aen Elle to the world of the Aen Seidhe and conquer it. However, his navigators lacked the power to move thousands of Aen Elle elves. According to Avallac'h, Eredin succumbed to his knowledge of the apocalypse which caused him to be ruled by fear of what was to come. Knowing Ciri's power would be able to create a large enough portal for his people, even if it were to kill her in the process, Eredin began to hunt for the girl once more.
Eredin eventually employed a new strategy in his attempt to cast Ciri. He knew that Ciri had loved ones so he sought to capture them and hopefully lure her into a trap while she attempted to save them. Thus he and his red riders went to Malus Island where Ciri's adoptive parents - Geralt of Rivia and Yennefer of Vengerberg - lived. Though Geralt managed to cut down many of the attackers, Eredin was able to kidnap the sorceress and took off with her. Geralt pursued him and was joined at one point by several witchers from the School of the Viper and, together, they caught up with the Hunt near the Hanged Man's tree in Nilfgaard and began to fight the Hunt. While the witchers proved to be capable fighters, they were too outnumbered, so Geralt offered to take Yennefer's place and Eredin agreed, releasing Yennefer.
For some time, the witcher rode with the Wild Hunt and Eredin was satisfied as Geralt was an excellent lure for Ciri. As expected, she soon found out and in 1270 she managed to save Geralt from Eredin's grasp while not getting caught herself. Despite this, Eredin continued to haunt Geralt using his spectral form and eventually the two had a confrontation (with Eredin still in his spectral form) before he re-focused his efforts on Ciri, who by that point was being helped by Avallac'h.
Eredin and the Hunt pursued the duo for over a year until one day the pair teleported to Ard Skellig. Sensing the power that came from such a teleportation, Eredin ambushed them in the forest and managed to inflict an extremely powerful Aen Undod curse upon Avallac'h that would slowly transform the sage into a diminutive creature that humans would later call Uma as he wished to simply humiliate Avallac'h rather than kill him. However, Avallac'h was not one to go down easily and cast a powerful spell that wrought havoc in the Hunt's ranks, destroying much of the forest and allowing the duo to escape, albeit ending up in different regions. Ciri ended up in Velen where she lost consciousness and the Crones found her. However, the Crones served Eredin and when he was informed they had Ciri, he sent Imlerith to retrieve her. However, Ciri managed to escape once more.
Sometime later, the group learned she'd returned to Skellige, this time to the village of Hindarsfjall, and the Wild Hunt soon attacked the village. However, Ciri once more evaded them as one of the locals, Skjall, helped her escape to where Avallac'h was waiting for her by boat, leaving their pursuers on shore.
With Ciri's location now unknown, Eredin waited for another chance Ciri might use her ability, giving her location away once more. Eventually Geralt, who learned Avallac'h had hidden her on the Isle of Mists, recovered her and the Hunt appeared, forcing Ciri to use her teleportation to transport her and Geralt to Kaer Morhen.
Battle of Kaer Morhen
Now knowing the location of Ciri, the Wild Hunt attacked the witcher keep in full force with Imlerith and Caranthir personally taking part in the fight, while Eredin watched rather than joining in himself. However, the witchers were able to put up a tougher fight than expected and Eredin called his generals away before blasting through into the courtyard with a powerful frost spell, freezing everyone caught in the blast, including Geralt.
Ciri and Vesemir, who'd been shielded by a wall, were the only ones not affected and while the old witcher tried his best to get Ciri to safety, he was caught by Imlerith who began to beat him up when Eredin stopped him, realizing they could use his life as blackmail to get Ciri to go with them. Despite Vesemir's protests to not do it, Ciri started to walk unarmed towards Eredin so Vesemir stabbed Imlerith who angrily snapped the witcher's neck. Seeing the death of her old mentor, Ciri's grief and rage, mixed with her Elder blood, caused a burst of raw magical power, threatening to kill not just the Wild Hunt and Eredin, but all the witchers in the area as well. Eredin, driven by the need to capture Ciri regardless, tried in vain to get to her, but Caranthir opened a portal and teleported himself and the king away, ending the battle.
Downfall
In the days following Eredin's humiliating retreat, the Aen Elle king received a few devastating blows to his power base, starting with Imlerith being slain by Geralt at the Sabbath before the White Wolf and Avallac'h traveled to Tir ná Lia to show Ge'els via onieromancy of Eredin's regicide, which prompted the viceroy to refuse reinforcements should Eredin call for aid.
Eventually, Eredin responded to a call from Ciri using the Sunstone, prompting him to redirect the Naglfar to the coast of Undvik. He soon found that it was in fact a trap, as the Wild Hunt was beset by both Nilfgaardians and Skelligers. On the deck of his ship, Eredin faced Crach an Craite and the elf proceeded to toy with the jarl, dealing him grievous wounds before asking if he had any final words. Crach refused and went in for one last attack, which Eredin cut down with ease, killing the jarl.
He was then confronted by Geralt and Eredin proclaimed he had something to tell the witcher but would only reveal it as the witcher was dying. As they battled, Eredin opened various portals into other realms where the two continued to fight before returning back to the Naglfar and where Geralt proceeded to stab Eredin in his left eye before dealing a fatal blow. Dying, Eredin confessed that Avallac'h had manipulated both of them into this confrontation so he could use Ciri for his own purposes before succumbing to his wounds.
End of game canon content.
The Witcher Battle Arena
 
Eredin Bréacc Glas is one of playable characters in MOBA "The Witcher Battle Arena" added with Season 3 Update and has a lot of interesting weapons, skills, and skins. He is a warrior class hero.
an Aen Elle and the leader of the elven cavalry known as the Dearg Ruadhri - The Red Horsemen, which is known to common folks as the Wild Hunt. Having lost the Gate of the Worlds, Eredin seeks Ciri through worlds and dimensions for she may be the key to its retrieval.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
 
Eredin pursues Ciri across the main regions of third installment, aided by two of his generals: Imlerith and Caranthir.
Journal entry
The name of the King of the Wild Hunt, the identity of the lord of nightmares, the being behind the frightful mask - this long remained unknown. Over time, however, scraps of information gradually coalesced into a full likeness of our foe - but did nothing to detract from the terror he inspired.
The Wild Hunt was in truth an elite cavalry brigade from the world of the Aen Elle, the Alder Folk, and was commanded by their ambitious and ruthless king, Eredin Bréacc Glas. He would travel via secret paths through the cold emptiness between his world from ours to capture victims and take them back to his homeland as slaves.
The current object of his Hunt was Cirilla, whose power he wanted to harness for his own uses. The only obstacle in his path - Geralt of Rivia.
Ciri was able to shed a bit of light on the King of the Wild Hunt's motivations. The threat of annihilation hung over the Aen Elle homeland. Eredin, a warrior and a conqueror by nature, decided to solve this problem in the simplest possible way - by seizing our world. The key to doing so? Ciri's power, which would allow him to open the gates to a full-scale invasion.
Trusting in the strength of his magic and the skill of his Riders, Eredin boldly launched a frontal assault on Kaer Morhen. Despite the defenders' noble sacrifices, he came close to victory. Only Ciri's unleashed power forced Eredin to fall back. It was clear, however, that he would learn from this defeat and that his next attack would be insurmountable.
According to Avallach'h, it was Eredin who bore responsibility for the death of Auberon Muircetach, the previous ruler of the Aen Elle. Revealing this fact would certainly not earn him friends and popularity amongst the Alder Folk.
Eredin's last battle is worthy of a poem - nay, an epic - all to itself, yet this is neither the time nor the place to pen it. To be brief, on that fateful day the cruel King of the Hunt seemed unstoppable and tore asunder all who dared stand in his way - until, that is, his way led him smack into Geralt of Rivia. The two expert fighters faced off in a last skirmish on the ghastly deck of the Naglfar. The fight was long and difficult, but the witcher's blade struck true in the end, cutting down Eredin's dreams of power and conquest.
So died Eredin Bréacc Glas, King of the Wild Hunt.
Associated quests
Kaer Morhen
The Nilfgaardian Connection
Wandering in the Dark
The Cave of Dreams
The Battle of Kaer Morhen
On Thin Ice
Developer comments
Eredin Bréacc Glas, King of the Wild Hunt, is the ultimate enemy in The Witcher 3 and the fiercest opponent Geralt has ever faced. This merciless, calculating, and ambitious warrior will stop at nothing to achieve his goal: capturing Ciri.
Eredin has led the Hunt's riders for dozens, possibly even hundreds, of years. In order to inspire greater terror, he wears armor making him look like a ghastly wraith. Elements of it are enameled in red and shaped so as to resemble a body whose skin has been flayed off. Crowning the armor is a skull-shaped helmet made of black steel, heavy, spiked brassards and greaves, and an openwork breastplate shaped to resemble skeletal ribs. Galloping on his mount, sword raised in the air, Eredin seems to most mortal men the incarnation of their worst possible nightmare.
Very few are aware of the fact, but underneath the King of the Wild Hunt's ghastly armor lies a being made of flesh and blood. The Riders of the Wild Hunt are in truth not wraiths, but warriors of the Aen Elle, the Alder Folk, distant relatives of the Aen Seidhe, the elves inhabiting the world in which our tale takes place.
Beneath he helmet of the King himself lies the face of Eredin, ruler and general of the Aen Elle. His face is slim and attractive, though clearly marked by cold cruelty. Dark, deep-set eyes, aristocratic features, a pale complexion, and thin lips twisted into a slight grimace complete our main antagonist's appearance.
...
In the world of the Aen Elle, Eredin Bréacc Glas once led an elite cavalry unit known as Dearg Ruadhri, meaning the Red Riders in Elder Speech. It was this unit that constituted the initial core of the Wild Hunt, and eilt formation able to move between worlds. The initial number of Dearg Ruadhri is not known, yet one can confidently assume that it rose greatly after Eredin ascended the throne after the death of his predecessor, King Auberon. These skilled Aen Elle warriors are foes that Geralt will have to face many times in this installment of the series.
The warriors of the Wild Hunt are attired in a way similar to that of their leader—heavy armor with skull motifs and bare, protruding bones to make them look like wraiths. The armor adheres to the general style used by the people in the world they are invading; that way, their victims mistake them for dead warriors, inspiring terror and hiding their true identity. Although each Dearg Ruadhri is a superbly trained fighter, more skilled than even the most elite soldiers of Nilfgaard or the Northern Realms, this extra element of "psychological warfare" tips the scales even further in favor of the Aen Elle.pg. 149-152, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt Artbook
Gwent
There are also five leader cards with Eredin's name as leader of Monsters Gwent deck. Four of which are in base game, while fifth one comes with Hearts of Stone expansion.
Eredin Bréacc Glas: The Treacherous
Eredin: Commander of the Red Riders
Eredin: King of the Wild Hunt
Eredin: Destroyer of Worlds
Eredin: Bringer of Death
Gwent: The Witcher Card Game

Reward Tree entries: Eredin Bréacc Glas
Scroll 1: When a sudden chill descends upon the night and crickets and frogs fall silent, folk of the Continent scramble from their beds to bolt every last door and window. For they know the Wild Hunt draws near.
Scroll 2: Who are these fiendish riders whose spectral silhouettes race across the night sky? Contrary to common belief, they are not not evil spirits, but elven warriors led by Eredin Bréacc Glas, known to some as Sparrowhawk.
Scroll 3: He arrived from lands exotic and far. His face hidden behind a skull-shaped helm, his heart cut from ice, the King of the Wild Hunt enslaves all those who cry out in terror. Shackled and chained, they are destined to serve the Aen Elle to the end of their days.
Scroll 4: Yet, not all of the Continent's inhabitants fear Eredin and his demonic horsemen. Many beasts and monsters – even those wholly void of reason – show deference to the Wild Hunt. Some even follow their command...
Chest 1: Eredin had but one goal – to open the gate between worlds. Was he to succeed, he would have eliminated the need to traverse realms of frenetic timelessness and bitter cold. The Aen Elle could seize control of the Continent and at last escape their doomed world. In such a scenario, the folk of the Continent would likely haved longed for their former kings – even those considered tyrants and whoresons...
Chest 2: Eredin made great effort to leverage human legends and superstitions. For this reason, his riders wore ghostly armor to appear as specters. What's more, he haunted the waters of Skellige with a ship resembling Naglfar, the mythical drakkar storied to be constructed from the nails of the dead. Due to his fear-mongering tactics, Eredin's Wild Hunt riders rarely had need to draw their weapons. They simply watched as their foes dropped their own...
Chest 3: Eredin has many foul deeds on his conscience – regicide included. Believing that the Aen Elle's leader, Auberon, was too weak to lead their people to victory, he decided to eliminate the king and take his place. While his plot succeeded, Eredin's reign would not last long, for it wasn't long before he stood against a particular witcher of the Wolf School by name of Geralt of Rivia...
Reward Tree entries: Sparrowhawk
Scroll 1: Before Eredin chased Cirilla to her dimension, he served King Auberon Muircetach as a cavalry commander in Tir ná Lia. For his ruler, with the Red Riders at his side, he regularly hunted the race that originally inhabited the world of Aen Elle. The unicorns. It's them, who gave the elf his nickname – Sparrowhawk, for he was their hated enemy and an excellent hunter. Both his looks and behavior resembled a dark bird of prey.Moreover, when Ciri arrived in the world of Aen Elle, it became clear that Eredin had what Auberon Muircetach had long lacked – strength and determination to act. Thus, it didn't take long before he decided to poison the old king for the good of his own people.
Scroll 2: In the distant past, when the Winter Queen was still alive and King Auberon Muircetach had just formed the Red Riders, Eredin had power over Ard Gaeth, the Gates of the Worlds. Thanks to this, he could travel freely to other dimensions, and whenever he did so, he invaded the chosen world ruthlessly. During these raids, his main goal was to find and secure a sufficient number of slaves, preferably humans, who could serve Aen Elle in their world or provide them as a source of power.Over time, these events have become a grave legend. The legend of Winter Queen and her Wild Hunt, who during the blizzard traveled the sky to capture people and chisel their hearts.Therefore Eredin and his elves wore skeletal armor and skull-shaped helmets.To reinforce this belief.
Videos
The Witcher 3 Eredin Final Boss Fight (Hard Mode)How to beat EREDIN on ANY DIFFICULTY – Top 10 toughest bosses in WITCHER 3-Eredin Bréacc Glas
Gallery
As depicted in the Witcher Battle Arena game.Eredin gwent card art (bronze level)Eredin gwent card art (copper level)Eredin gwent card art (silver level)Eredin gwent card art (gold level)Eredin gwent card art (platinum level)Gwent standalone cardartEredin's avatar in Gwent OnlineIllustration by Yana KomarkovaIn The Witcher: Blood Origin (Jacob Collins Levy)In Netflix's The Witcher (Sam Hazeldine)
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Eredin
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 Time of Contempt
↑ 2.0 2.1 The Lady of the Lake