Fenrik
Fenrik was a nonverbal elven mage and apprentice and confidant to Xin'trea's Chief Sage, Balor, prior to the Conjunction of the Spheres.
Biography
Not much is known of Fenrik's past except she attended the same mage institution as Balor and was soon taken under his wing, with the two eventually forming a close, familial bond, like that of a father and daughter. While she didn't speak, she could still hear and understand others around her and would use sign language to communicate, leaving Balor as the one to interpret her to others when necessary.
She was extremely loyal to Balor to the point that she was tasked by the Chief Sage to secretly poison their king, Darach, in the hopes Balor could destabilize the kingdom enough to eventually take over. While she successfully killed the king, with Prince Alvitir taking over Xin'trea, Balor's assassination attempt soon after against the new king and his sister, Princess Merwyn, failed.
Balor, needing to make sacrifices to gain access to chaos, had help from Fenrik to secure two young celestial siblings to sacrifice to a mysterious entity he'd discovered when he opened a portal to a different world. However, this only proved to gain a fleeting sense of the power and was told by the mysterious entity he had to make a far greater sacrifice to truly gain the ability, stumping both her and Balor on what this meant.
Balor soon discovered though that the young apprentice Avallac'h had stolen a special book he had on accessing the portals and nearly killed the young mage until Eredin took Fenrik hostage, threatening to kill her if Balor killed Avallac'h, forcing Balor to stop. Both Fenrik and Balor were then thrown into prison.
While in their shared cell, Fenrik, still puzzled by why the sacrifice didn't work, asked Balor, who only noted too late he realized what it required. Before he could continue further though, they were interrupted by Merwyn, noting she still wished for them all to work together, though Balor quickly deduced it was because Avallac'h couldn't get the portals working. He then agreed to help on the condition Fenrik was also released with him. Despite Fenrik communicating to him not to trust Merwyn, Balor simply noted she was thankful as well.
Shortly after that, they all met up at the master monolith in the courtyard with Eredin and a scouting party. Balor then opened a portal and Fenrik, along with the rest of the group, went through. As Eredin and the scouting party started trying to look around for food and resources, Balor turned to Fenrik, noting while they weren't blood related, she was as close as he had to a family member. As he then noted what he knew he had to do to truly gain access to chaos, Fenrik realized too late this meant sacrificing her as Balor used his magic to slash her neck, killing her.
References
↑ The Witcher: Blood Origin
↑ Netflix Guide: Fenrik
↑ Netflix Guide: Mad King Darach