Fiend
Fiend (Polish: Bies) is a relict creature that appears in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt. The beast resembles a deer but much larger. Fiends also have a third eye which they use to hypnotize its opponents.
A bestiary entry can be obtained by reading Beasts of the Tukaj Foothills.
Quick Answers
What is the role of the third eye of a Fiend in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt?
						The Fiend in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt uses its third eye for hypnosis, entrancing victims into a state where they only perceive the glowing third eye. Witchers can evade this by tracking the burning eye. The hypnosis can be disrupted by signs, and a samum bomb can permanently disable the third eye. Consuming an Enhanced Cat or Superior Cat potion provides full immunity to the third eye attack.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What is the significance of the Fiend in the Tukaj Foothills?
						In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, the Fiend is a key creature in the Tukaj Foothills, as detailed in the book 'Beasts of the Tukaj Foothills'. This book offers bestiary entries for fiends and chorts, underlining their distinct characteristics. Additionally, it includes the recipe for a fiend decoction, underscoring the Fiend's role in the game's narrative and mechanics.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How does a Fiend use its size to its advantage in combat?
						In combat, the Fiend leverages its size by performing bull-like long range charges and moderate-sized sweeping attacks with its claws and horns. Its substantial mass and swift, forceful attacks pose significant challenges for opponents. Moreover, the Fiend's thick, calloused hide can deflect robust sword blows, providing it with an additional defensive advantage.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What is the tragic event involving a Fiend in the Villepin Estate?
						A devastating incident occurred at the Villepin Estate near Vizima, where the owner's son and his hunting party were killed during a fiend hunt. Fiends, muscular creatures with horned heads full of teeth, typically inhabit dense forests, swamps, and bogs.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Fiend","mainEntity":}
Bestiary entry
I regret to inform Your Grace that Your Grace's son fell while hunting a fiend. He died on the spot, along with his squire, his guide, the beaters, his peasant entourage and his hounds.– Kavin Jell, manager of the Villepin Estate near Vizima.
Fiends are walking mountains of muscle capped with horned, tooth-filled heads. Like their rarer cousins, bumbakvetches, they live in thick forests, swamps and bogs. When possible they avoid humans, but when not possible, they kill them, and without much difficulty.
Their size alone makes fiends and bumbakvetches extremely dangerous – one blow from their powerful paws can kill a knight along with it's fully armored mount. Their enormous heft also makes them invulnerable to Aard: even witchers specializing in the power of Signs could not move one even an inch. Furthermore, any wounds they receive heal at lightning speed.
If that weren't trouble enough, fiends need not rely on their strength and stamina alone with fighting. They can also call on a more refined weapon: the third eye located in the center of their forehead, which they use to draw their prey into a state of hypnosis. During these times their victim does not see anything beyond this single burning eye – the last thing they see before their death.
A fiend's only weakness is its fear of loud noises – bombs such as Samum or Devil's Puffball are thus quite effective when fighting this monster. Furthermore, a blade covered in relict oil can increase a witcher's chances of victory – or at least of walking away from the fight.
Associated quests
Return to Crookback Bog
The Isle of Mists
Scavenger Hunt: Wolf School Gear Upgrade Diagrams - Part 5
Bald Mountain (optional)
Combat tactics
 
Consider a fiend as one would a chort: incredible speed, strength, and a single-minded desire to kill, only more ferocious, larger, and angrier. They fight very much the same, and can be taken advantage of in similar ways.
The fiend's third eye defines this monster as a force with which to be reckoned. It can lure victims into a state of hypnosis, where all they see is the third eye glowing in the darkness. Inexperienced hunters will die in the seconds that follow. Witchers know to follow that burning eye, and understand to use that to judge precisely when to evade.
A fiend attempting its hypnosis can be interrupted by signs, but not sword hits. A well timed samum bomb can permanently disable the fiend's third eye and prevent any use of hypnosis. Failing that, the hypnosis effect has a limited range; when it starts its charge-up for the move (crouched down and the ground slightly shaking) back off at least two rolls worth of distance and the effect should miss. The best way to avoid the third eye is to move behind or move to the side of the fiend because hypnosis only works if the witcher is in view of the third eye. Fiends are not particularly vulnerable to normal fire attacks, but pyromaniac and firestream of Igni is very effective, due to their burning effect or other burning effect bombs like the dancing star. Note that drinking an Enhanced Cat or Superior Cat potion grants full immunity to the third eye attack making it useless. Axii is also effective at breaking the charge-up while leaving the fiend wide open, so it pays to keep Axii in reserve rather than use it recklessly.
In terms of attack style, at longer range the fiend will sometimes paw the ground and then do a long range charge like a bull. Rolling out or well placed dodges or using quen to nullify it's damage are your options. At closer range it will attack with its claws and its horns in moderate-sized sweeping attacks; it isn't particularly good at countering someone hitting it on the rear side almost behind it.
Trivia
Bies, as the fiend is called in the native version of the game, is widely considered to be a synonym of czart or czort (chort) - a demon from Slavic mythology, who after Christianization of the Slavonic nations, is often associated with the devil.
Even though the game trailer fiend is pale-skinned with dark brown hair, most are red with dark reddish hair in the game. The exception is Morvudd that appears black and white with a variegated pattern. It is unknown whether more than just the red type of fiend appear as the typical variant.
See also
Fiend (gwent card)
Videos
What are Fiends and Chorts? The Witcher 3 Lore - Fiends ChortsThe Witcher 3 Fiend Boss Fight (Hard Mode)
Gallery
Fiend concept artGwent card art
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Fiend