Fists of Fury: Skellige
Fists of Fury: Skellige is a secondary quest in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt.
Fist Fights
Strong as a sea lion, slippery as an eel and ready to fight against the best? Join our tournament and face the mightiest fists in the Isles: Valrad of Kaer Trolde, Ainar of Faroe and Grim in Arinbjorn!
Don't delay! Glory and honor are just a fistfight away!
The rewarded in this quest is unaffected by level constraint and difficulty level.
Walkthrough
This quest may be started via its notice on Kaer Trolde Harbor's notice board or simply encountering one of the spots where fist fights take place.
When you first arrive in Skellige, you'll most likely come across the fistfighters at the harbor first, in front of The New Port. Here, you'll have to fight Valgard, however he'll ask to talk to you for a moment in private.
He'll point out he's trying to impress a nearby woman, Eryka, but obviously doesn't stand a chance against a witcher. You can tell him whatever you like before the fight begins but can change your mind during it. Valgard's reaction will differ a bit depending (for instance, if you agree but then defeat him anyways he'll be upset you backed out of your promise, while if you refused but lost, he'll boast to Eryka rather than privately thanking the witcher). If you threw the fight, you can fight him again. Regardless what you do, once you win you'll gain 25 and 70 .
The other two opponents are straightforward:
In Arinbjorn you'll find Grim (25 and 70 )
In Harviken you'll find Einar (25 and 70 )
Note that the diagrams given out are based on order: your first opponent will drop diagram: The Digger and your third opponent will drop diagram: Nilfgaardian guardsman armor.
Once all 3 are defeated, you now have the chance to fight Skellige's champion, Olaf on An Skellig. Head to the arena northeast of Urialla Harbor and talk to the bookie who'll inform you Olaf will appear once he has an opponent to face. Once you're ready, let him know and head into the arena. Note: Your health won't be set to full at the start and end of the fight. After a short cutscene you learn your opponent is a bear that you have to punch to death. Once you win, you'll earn 50 , 90 , and Gwestog.
Journal entry
Geralt learned a fistfighting tournament was being held in Skellige. Since the men of the isles are famous for their fighting prowess, he could not pass up this chance to test his strength against theirs.
In order to qualify to fight for the Skellige title, Geralt first had to defeat a series of lesser challengers.
Geralt defeated all corners and earned the right to call himself the greatest brawler in the isles. To this day, whenever someone thoroughly bests a mighty opponent, Skelligers will say he "pulled a Geralt."
Objectives
Defeat Valgard.
Defeat Grim.
Defeat Einar.
Try your strength against the Skellige champion - Olaf.
Enter the arena.
Defeat Olaf.
Notes
If you already completed the secondary quest The Lord of Undvik and managed to keep Folan alive until the end of the quest, the bookie in Arinbjorn will mention how Folan and him are childhood friends.
Gallery
ValgardGrimEinarOlaf the bear