Geralt of Rivia

"Do you really wish to know?" — Spoilers from the books and/or adaptations to follow!
Spoilers from the newest book, Rozdroże kruków to follow!
"I shall organize, see to everything and whip the house into order."This article is currently under construction for major revisions. We ask that edits to this article are only minor or grammatical in nature until this warning is removed in order to not disrupt the major revamp. Should you have any questions regarding the revamp, consult the talk page for more info.
...if I'm to choose between one evil and another, then I prefer not to choose at all.
- Geralt, pg. 90 The Last Wish (U.S. edition)
Geralt of Rivia was a legendary witcher of the School of the Wolf active throughout the 13th century. He loved the sorceress Yennefer, considered the love of his life despite their tumultuous relationship, and became Ciri's adoptive father.
During the Trial of the Grasses, Geralt exhibited unusual tolerance for the mutagens that grant witchers their abilities. Accordingly, Geralt was subjected to further experimental mutagens which rendered his hair white and may have given him greater speed, strength, and stamina than his fellow witchers.
Despite his title, Geralt did not hail from the city of Rivia. After being left with the witchers by his mother, Visenna, he grew up in their keep of Kaer Morhen in the realm of Kaedwen. In the interest of appearing more trustworthy to potential clients, young witchers were encouraged to make up surnames for themselves by master Vesemir. As his first choice, Geralt chose "Geralt Roger Eric du Haute-Bellegarde", but this choice was dismissed by Vesemir as silly and pretentious, so "Geralt" was all that remained of his chosen name. "Of Rivia" was a more practical alternative and Geralt even went so far as to adopt a Rivian accent to appear more authentic. Later, Queen Meve of Lyria knighted him for his valor in the Battle for the Bridge on the Yaruga conferring on him the formal title "of Rivia", which amused him. He, therefore, became a true knight.
Biography
Geralt was born as the son of the sorceress Visenna and presumably, the warrior Korin. Shortly after his birth, his mother left him with the School of the Wolf at the stronghold of Kaer Morhen. There, Geralt was made and trained to become a Witcher.
As a child, he was subjected to the Trial of The Grasses. He managed to survive the many blistering mutations required to grant Witchers their abilities. After displaying unusual tolerance, Geralt was selected for further experimental mutations which granted him considerably greater strength, speed, endurance, resilience, healing, senses, complete immunity to diseases and conventional poisons, and extreme resistance to pain. This resulted in his hair turning white, and he received the nickname "White Wolf".
Geralt was trained by his mentor Vesemir, whom he came to regard as a father figure. He soon met his fellow classmate Eskel, and the two became good friends and as close as brothers. One time, they captured a large forest bumblebee and tied it to a jug. The pair laughed at its antics until they were discovered by Vesemir who punished them with a leather strap.
Early life
"This is my story, not yours. You must let me finish telling it." — This article/section is a stub. You can help Witcher Wiki by expanding it.
Due to his brilliant success in training, Geralt was selected for additional mutation experiments. He was the only witcher to have survived these experiments, his stark white hair being a side effect of these additional mutations. He also spent time training with Mother Assumpta and priestess Nenneke at the Temple of Melitele in Elsborg. After completing his witcher training, Geralt set off into the world on a horse named Roach, a name he would bestow upon every one of his later horses. Thus, he became a monster slayer for hire.
Originally, Geralt was convicted and enthusiastic, holding faith that he was needed in a world full of monsters and beasts to protect the innocent, although Vesemir greatly advised him not to play at being a knight errant or uphold the law. After travelling about 50 miles after leaving Kaer Morhen, Geralt was anxious to kill his first monster. He encountered a bald man with rotten teeth, who stopped a peasant's cart and pulled out a young girl whilst his companions held down her father as the bald man tore off her dress yelling it was time for her to meet a real man and attempted to rape her. Geralt rode up and told him the time had come for him to meet one too. The thug released the girl and charged at him with an axe. Geralt managed to strike him twice with his blade and killed him. The young witcher turned, expecting gratitude, but the father fled with the attackers, and the girl, who was drenched in the man's blood, vomited, became hysterical, and then fainted in fear when Geralt approached her. This event caused Geralt to rarely interfere with such matters.
Following advice from Nenneke, at one point during or after 1231 he began to study at Oxenfurt Academy, where he attended some lectures including astronomy.
Over the years, Geralt traveled across the continent. He visited towns and fortresses looking for proclamations nailed to the posts at crossroads with the words 'Witcher urgently needed'. His adventures led him to sacred sites, dungeons, necropolis, ruins, forest ravines, and hidden grottos in the mountains. Throughout his career he killed a manticore, wyvern, fogler, aeschna, ilyocoris, chimera, leshy, vampire, ghoul, graveir, werewolf, giant scorpion, striga, black annis, kikimore, and several other creatures.
Butcher of Blaviken
Geralt once visited the town of Blaviken and befriended the local alderman, Caldemeyn. He was invited into his house to share a meal with his family. During their supper, Geralt threw his fork at a rat in complete darkness and killed it in order to practise his witcher senses which he found to be amusing. However, the alderman's wife, Libushe, harbored a distrustful opinion of the witcher.
An unknown time later, he killed an amphisbaena and went to the court of King Idi of Kovir, where he handed in the head of the beast. However the king's mages, Zavist and Stregobor, told the king that Geralt was little more than a charlatan, so the king didn't pay the witcher anything and demanded he leave Kovir in 12 hours, which Geralt was barely able to do on account of the king's hourglass being broken.
Two years later he made his way to Blaviken where the alderman, Caldemeyn, was happy to see the witcher after so many years since Geralt's last visit. While he couldn't offer a reward on a kikimore that Geralt killed nearby, his guards suggested the local mage, Irion, might have some use for it. However, when they arrived at the mage's tower, Geralt immediately saw Irion was actually none other than Stregobor. Once the witcher and mage were alone, the two discussed the past, with Geralt sardonically remarking on how Stregobor talked the former King Idi out of paying him back in Kovir. Pushing this aside, Stregobor revealed he needed Geralt's help: Renfri, a bandit and the leader of a gang, was in town looking to kill him, and therefore he wished for the witcher to kill Renfri. Unfazed by this, Geralt remarked it wasn't his problem and left.
Later that night, Geralt and Caldemeyn went to The Golden Court, the town's inn where Renfri was staying. Geralt found her gang, though none of them were very cooperative and just made jokes until one member, Fifteen, challenged him to a fight. However, before it could begin, Renfri appeared and went to talk to Geralt and Caldemeyn in private, with the latter demanding she leave town or be thrown in jail. Unperturbed, Renfri revealed a letter of safe conduct from King Audoen which gave her immunity in Hengfors and Arcsea. After another short discussion, Geralt and the alderman left.
That night, as Geralt went to his guest room in Caldemeyn's home, he found Renfri there. She eventually revealed her entire past, including how Stregobor played a part in banishing the princess from her own kingdom on account of her being born during a black sun, putting into play a constant struggle between the two: her trying to kill the mage and the mage trying to kill her. She then asked Geralt to help her kill Stregobor, but the witcher once again refused to take sides. After telling her she should leave town, Renfri remarked on the Tridam ultimatum, before agreeing she'd leave the next day, but in the meantime wished to sleep with Geralt, who obliged.
The next morning though, as Geralt ate breakfast with Caldemeyn and his family, the alderman revealed the deadly meaning behind the Tridam ultimatum, making Geralt realize Renfri's ruse was to take the market-goers hostage. He ran off to the market, which was preparing for its busiest day of the year. When he arrived, he found Renfri's gang, who hadn't acted yet, as Renfri went off to give Stregobor the ultimatum first. Not wanting to take chances, Geralt fought with the gang, viciously killing them all off in front of the townspeople before Renfri showed up. She refused to stand down, forcing Geralt to fight and kill her as well. As she died, Stregobor appeared, having seen it all from his crystal ball, and wished to do an autopsy on the dead princess. However, Geralt threatened to slay the mage if he so much as touched Renfri's body, and thus Stregobor left to return to Kovir. The townspeople, not realizing how close they'd come to being hostages and killed off, proceeded to throw stones at Geralt for his actions until Caldemeyn stepped in to stop it. He then asked for Geralt to leave and never return to Blaviken.
Dealing with Eskel's child surprise
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
In the fall of 1232, Geralt decided to return to Kaer Morhen early but along the way, his horse was killed by wolves, and he encountered several Caingornese camps. He stopped at one to meet Prince Merwin Ademeyn and the sorceress Sabrina Glevissig, as well as the dwarf Merton Bringgs. They had a proposition for Geralt but before Sabrina could discuss it, a pack of wolves attacked them. After they were killed, Geralt then talked to Sabrina who discussed the symptoms of the Curse of the Black Sun, who eventually turned the conversation to Merwin's sister, Deidre Ademeyn, who was in Kaer Morhen and having been born during an eclipse. Sabrina asked Geralt to retrieve her from the keep so she could give Deidre to the Council of Mages to be studied, and hopefully find a cure to the curse.
As Geralt left the tent, he was approached by Merwin, who showed him a scroll from King Henselt of Kaedwen, who told him that Merwin was under the protection of Kaedwen and anyone defying Merwin defied the kingdom. Shortly after in the woods, Geralt met Lambert, who had just killed some wolves, and explained that Merton Bringgs and his group of dwarves had tried to enter the keep, but Lambert caught them. As Geralt entered the keep, he found Vesemir who informed him that Deidre had returned a couple of days earlier, running from her envious brother and an evil sorceress, and that Eskel had told him that Deidre was actually his surprise child from about 20 years ago. Vesemir then told Geralt to go look for Eskel.
Geralt soon found Eskel, who explained how Deidre had become his surprise child, but ultimately hadn't decided if he should hand her over to Sabrina or not. The two then made their way back to Vesemir, who decided the 4 should vote on it, with it coming down to Geralt's choice as Eskel chose to trust whatever his fellow witcher decided.
If Geralt voted to keep Deidre safe: Geralt and Eskel convinced Deidre to go with them to the camp where the prince and the sorceress were. Once there though, despite Deidre agreeing she'd give up any claim to the throne and any titles and estates like her brother wanted, Sabrina then tried to have Merton arrest her. In the ensuing chaos, Deidre struck Eskel, causing deep facial scars, and killed Merton with her sword but Sabrina escaped through a portal. The witchers then entered a fight with Merwin's group before Geralt followed Deidre into Sabrina's tent where he found Deidre, Sabrina, and Merwin. Merwin asked Geralt to kill Deidre, but she pleaded for her life saying she didn't mean to hurt Eskel. Geralt then tried to convince Deidre to let her anger towards Sabrina and her brother go, as that was best for everyone.
Geralt made Deidre drop her sword: Geralt wasn't impressed that Deidre had struck Eskel and was also annoyed she lied about wanting a peaceful option. He then had to kill Deidre and her wolves.
Geralt made Sabrina leave: Geralt told the sorceress that her magic was useless and that she should just leave, which she did. Merwin and Deidre forgave each other and left for Caingorn.
If Geralt told Deidre to leave the keep: Geralt and Eskel informed Deidre she had to leave, with Eskel explaining she was putting Kaer Morhen in danger by being there. Angry at this, she struck Eskel, causing deep facial scars, and summoned archespores, which attacked the two witchers while she ran off. After dealing with the immediate threats, Geralt informed Vesemir about the situation before going to Sabrina to get her help to heal Eskel, the two later helping him to resolve the matter of Deidre's fate.
The rest of the winter at Kaer Morhen passed more peacefully and Geralt left come spring to continue his trade.
End of game canon content.
Adventures with Dandelion
Geralt traveled to Gulet on witcher business, where he met Dandelion, a poet who later became his best friend, at a fête. Later Dandelion slept with a woman under the musicians' podium, who had four large brothers. Dandelion fled from the city with Geralt and started to build a friendship with him on their way southeast to Dol Blathanna.
After Gulet, Geralt and Dandelion stopped in Upper Posada to look for work, however the only "monster troubles" the people could come up with were tall tales and creatures that didn't actually exist, so the two soon left to find another place for work. However, on the road, they were soon approached by Nettly, who'd seen them in Upper Posada, and explained he did have business for the witcher, who accepted.
Geralt and Dandelion ate supper at the man's house where the group was joined by Dhun, the elder of Lower Posada, who eventually discussed a "deovel" named Torque, who had been somewhat helpful, when not occasionally pulling pranks on the villagers. These pranks were getting out of hand though and they needed something to get rid of Torque, but not kill him.
Agreeing to check it out, the witcher and bard went into the nearby hemp field where the "deovel" was known to stay and found "offerings" set up for the creature. As they looked around, Torque appeared but as Geralt tried to talk with the sylvan, Dandelion started to make jokes at Torque to the point the sylvan began to pelt small, iron balls at the two, making them run off.
After the attack, the two went back to Lower Posada where they met with Dhun and Nettly, who admitted that they had tried to outwit the "deovel" in the past, including trying to trick him into eating the iron pellets he'd thrown at the pair. Eventually, they brought out an old woman and her apprentice, Lille, along with an ancient book. While the old woman, a Wise One, couldn't read the book, she'd memorized it by heart from knowledge passed down to each wise woman, eventually revealing Torque was a sylvan and the reason they just wanted to drive him away was that Lille didn't want him killed.
With this in mind, the next day Geralt found Torque and, after a quick game of riddles, the witcher threw an iron ball which hit Torque in the forehead. This surprise attack gave Geralt the opportunity to capture Torque and signal to Dandelion, but a horse appeared and hit him, rendering the witcher unconscious.
Shortly after, Geralt woke up to find himself tied up along with Dandelion, with Torque giving Galarr, an elf from the Blue Mountains, three sacks of corn, revealing that Torque had been stealing the food to help the starving elves, as well as passing along agricultural tips he learned from the villagers as the elves didn't know how to farm the land. Noticing the awake prisoners, one of the elves, Toruviel, began to antagonize Geralt before kicking him and smashing Dandelion's lute. Angry at this latter act, Geralt managed to headbutt the elf and another moved to kill the witcher despite Torque's protests that Filavandrel aén Fidháil forbade killing, when Filavandrel himself showed up to stop everything.
However, it was clear that the leader planned to have the witcher and bard killed, as they were witnesses to what Torque had been doing, though during this Filavandrel and Geralt conversed, with Geralt noting the elf was filled with hatred towards humans and was, despite how his people were starving, too proud to try and cohabit with those he deemed "inferior". As the elves moved to shoot Geralt and Dandelion though, Torque stood in front of the pair, fruitlessly trying to defend anyone from being killed and ignoring Geralt's remark to stand aside. Feeling it was necessary, Filavandrel started to give the order to kill the three when Lille suddenly appeared, but in the form of the goddess Dana Meadbh. After silently communicating with the elves, she sent them riding back to the Blue Mountains, but not before Toruviel gave Dandelion her priceless lute for destroying his. Filavandrel then bade farewell to them, remarking Geralt was right about his earlier comments. Later that night, Geralt, Dandelion, and Torque made camp, with Geralt reading over the ancient book he'd collected as his prize for getting rid of Torque, who was moving on from Lower Posada.
Meeting Yennefer
In 1249, Geralt and Dandelion traveled to a village where they went fishing but the line snapped and their meal escaped. The two started to fight about who was at fault and started to leave before Dandelion realized the line had caught an old jar that he thought might contain a djinn. On realizing there was a mage's seal on the jar, Geralt tried to warn the bard not to touch it but in their scuffle, the seal came off and the djinn appeared. As Geralt grabbed his swords, Dandelion began to make wishes, which only angered the djinn and it grabbed Dandelion's throat. With his weapons doing little damage, Geralt grabbed the seal out of desperation and used the words of an exorcism a priestess had taught him and miraculously the djinn ran off.
However, the bard was badly injured so Geralt hastily made for Rinde in hopes of finding someone to help. Despite Dandelion's severe injuries, anyone of low stature wasn't allowed to enter after sunset so all they could do was wait it out with the others there, including Chireadan, Errdil, and Vratimir. Eventually, the group revealed there was only one known mage in town who could help: Yennefer of Vengerberg who, despite King Heribert's orders that no magic users could stay in Redania, was staying with the honorary Novigrad ambassador, Beau Berrant, thus giving her asylum while she stayed with him.
As soon as sunrise hit, Geralt made his way to the ambassador's home, knocking out the doorman, Cerberus, in the process. While he searched the home for the sorceress, he ran into a drunk and naked Berrant, who mentioned a woman wanting juice before he passed out. Geralt got the apple juice, then made his way up to the sorceress' room and gave her the drink, who didn't notice at first that he was not Berrant as she was under the bed covers. However, once she appeared naked from under them, she quickly realized the situation and demanded answers from Geralt, who answered sarcastically, causing her to immediately cast a spell at him which Geralt tried to counter with Heliotrop. Desperate for her help, Geralt changed to a respectful tone, explaining why he'd intruded on her sleep, before eventually revealing the djinn and the exorcism statement he made. However, Yennefer remarked it wasn't an exorcism, just a witty, indecent comment before asking what drove the djinn away and the seal that'd been on the bottle. While Geralt noted it probably went to do one of Dandelion's wishes, he hid the truth about the seal, pretending Dandelion had it. The two then traveled by portal to Errdil's inn so that Yennefer could help the injured bard.
As Yennefer worked on healing Dandelion, Geralt and Chireadan discussed the sorceress, with the two men both revealing in their own ways they found her attractive, though the elf noted that Geralt should be wary of Yennefer, as she didn't do things to help others unless she was also getting something out of it. After some time, Yennefer then called the witcher up to the room to see Dandelion only to then release a magical trap on Geralt and reveal she knew he had the seal. After some back-and-forth comments, Geralt gave it to her as a gesture of goodwill that he'd pay her for her help, however, this was fruitless as Yennefer had something else in mind and Geralt quickly deduced she wanted to use Dandelion, who had a connection to the djinn, to try and lure it back to capture it for herself. The witcher adamantly refused to put Dandelion in danger again, but by then Yennefer's other spells took hold, paralyzing the witcher and obscuring the room in a magical shield so nobody could interfere. With that, she then told Geralt he was going to pay for her help by settling some of her accounts in Rinde before violently kissing him, which placed a hypnotic spell on the witcher before he soon lost consciousness.
Geralt woke to find himself in the city's dungeons with Chireadan, who revealed in his mind-controlled state that Geralt had beat up the local pawnbroker and his apprentice, spanked the local apothecary Laurelnose, took out a group of guards, then made his way to the temple while insulting the priest, Krepp, as all 3 were on the town council and had voted to kick Yennefer out of Rinde while also spreading vulgar gossip about her. However, before Geralt could make it to the temple he fainted and the guards threw him into the dungeons, with Chireadan having been caught in the chaos and thrown in as well. Just then, several guards sent by Laurelnose came in and began to beat up Geralt, but when the one throwing the punches asked if the witcher had any wishes, Geralt stated he just had one: that the guard would burst and, before another punch could be thrown, the guard's body literally burst, killing him instantly.
With that, Geralt and Chireadan were brought before the mayor, Neville, with Krepp also in attendance, with the latter noting it must have been the sorceress' work as neither the witcher nor elf had control of the force to do so. After revealing almost the entire story to the mayor and priest, Krepp then concluded Yennefer wanted the djinn as it would give the sorceress a great deal of power and when the conversation turned to what Geralt said that made the genie run off, Geralt repeated the supposed exorcism only for Krepp to become insulted by it. Before more could be asked on this, Dandelion suddenly fell into the room through a portal, proclaiming Geralt was innocent and that Yennefer had ordered him to state before the mayor his wish was for them to believe the witcher wasn't guilty. Krepp quickly deduced it was the sorceress' way of using the last wish to free the genie so she could capture it when the group heard a thunderous noise outside of the building and looked out to see the djinn flying above Errdil's tavern, having been magically lassoed by Yennefer. However, the djinn wasn't going down without a fight and was destroying all the nearby buildings as it tried to break free.
Wishing to save Yennefer, Geralt got Krepp to cast a spell to re-open the portal Dandelion had come through but not before asking what the words of the exorcism he said earlier meant, to which Krepp paraphrased that it meant "get out of here and go fuck yourself!". With that, Geralt entered the portal and landed in Errdil's tavern where Yennefer was still trying to capture the genie while her powers waned. Seeing Geralt, she opened a portal to send him away as the djinn entered the tavern through its own portal to kill the sorceress, but Geralt threw himself between the two, shielding Yennefer. Shockingly, the genie didn't attack the witcher, but appeared to roar in an unknown language at him. Trying to get Yennefer away from it, Geralt pulled the sorceress through the portal she'd opened, though she yelled and threw punches at the witcher, claiming she almost had the genie, before rushing back through the portal with Geralt trying to grab her once more. As they crashed back in the tavern, Yennefer managed to cast a spell to pin the witcher down, but Geralt, trying to save her, informed her of the truth: he was the one making the wishes as he'd been the one holding the seal when he made his first wish (the "exorcism") and had one wish left.
As a weakened Yennefer demanded Geralt make his last wish so she could hopelessly try to capture the genie, Geralt finally realized what he wanted and that would also save Yennefer from the genie's wrath and wished their fates be tied, thus freeing the genie while preventing it from killing the sorceress. With that, the genie escaped back to its realm, and Geralt and Yennefer proceeded to make love in the destroyed tavern.
Staying in Vengerberg
After the events in Rinde, Yennefer and Geralt started a rather physical relationship, spending the majority of their time at Yennefer's home in Vengerberg, Aedirn, and putting to good use a wide variety of the sorceress' collection, including a stuffed unicorn, as well as having sex in rather unusual situations, like levitating 30 fathoms above the ground. However, the witcher finally decided to leave after half a year in the city, considering Yennefer's behavior as too possessive. Unable to initiate the parting though, the witcher ran off during the night, leaving only a rose and a letter on the bed as his farewell.
Stolen swords
TBA
The cursed princess
In 1252, Geralt traveled to Vizima and visited The Fox but, while trying to find a bed to rent, was attacked by three racists who didn't approve of his Rivian accent. A short fight unfolded where Geralt killed the men but right after members of the city guard appeared and attempted to arrest him, though using Axii, Geralt was able to manipulate them into taking him to Velerad, the city castellan, instead.
Once he met Velerad, the pair took time discussing the real reason Geralt was passing through: King Foltest of Temeria had put out a contract to cure his daughter, Adda the White, who was cursed and turned into a striga. After Geralt went and saw Foltest, they reached an agreement: for 3,000 orens, Geralt would try to successfully release Adda from her curse, without killing her, as many had attempted in the past. The witcher then discussed the plan further with Foltest's underlings, Ostrit, Velerad, and Segelin, who agreed the witcher should spend a night in the old city with the striga.
Four days later, after talking to survivors of the beast, speaking further with Foltest, and finalizing plans, Geralt traveled to the old, abandoned palace and set up camp there, preparing his potions and meditating before he was found by Ostrit in the dead city. The magnate then tried to bribe the witcher with 1,000 orens to leave the place and never return, all while keeping the cursed Adda in her form. As Geralt questioned Ostrit's reasoning, noting a striga on the loose would make people lose faith in their king and possibly remove Foltest, the magnate grew frustrated and tried to fight the witcher, who quickly knocked out the man and tied him up.
Ostrit came to shortly after and soon realized Geralt planned to use him as bait to lure out Adda. He then confessed to the witcher he did want to overthrow Foltest, but more than that, he wanted the king to suffer because Foltest had taken the one Ostrit had loved, Adda of Temeria, who was the king's own deceased sister and lover. However, he was adamant he couldn't have possibly caused the curse as he didn't know how to use magic and that Foltest and Adda's mother, Sancia of Sodden, must have done it as she too didn't agree with the incestuous relationship. Geralt, however, heard the beast start to move out of her crypt and cut the magnate loose, who quickly took off to try and fruitlessly escape but was quickly killed by the striga.
Geralt and the striga then faced off against each other, though Geralt took care not to kill her, only looking to buy enough time to get her away from her crypt. Eventually managing to send her running, Geralt quickly hid himself in her tomb and closed it, casting Yrden on the cover before meditating until dawn. Awaking a few hours later, right at dawn, he slipped out of the tomb to find Adda, now in human form, lying next to the tomb. However, as Geralt checked her teeth to make sure the transformation was complete, the still transforming girl awoke and slashed deep cuts in Geralt's neck with her talons. The witcher quickly pinned her down until she completely transformed back to human, but right after Geralt fainted from the blood loss.
Two days later, Geralt woke up in the new palace with Velerad looking after him, who explained they'd raced into the old palace right after dawn and found the badly injured witcher and saved him. Geralt then asked about the princess' condition and as the castellan explained she was fine, Geralt fell asleep once more.
Recovery in Ellander
After fighting and releasing the striga, Geralt traveled to Ellander to recover at the Temple of Melitele. He was cared to by and quickly developed a relationship with one of the priestesses, Iola, who was studying under Nenneke, and ended up sleeping with her, as she reminded him of Yennefer. The next morning, the two were awoken by Nenneke, who didn't want them in a relationship together, so she sent Iola out to continue with her duties. The older priestess had a look at Geralt's injuries and then after some assessment, sent the witcher to go eat breakfast, before joining him again in the temple gardens.
The two then discussed Iola using magic to put Geralt in a trance, and maybe reveal something about his destiny and future, though the witcher didn't want to undergo such a thing. Not long after that, Count Falwick and Arthur Tailles, members of the Order of the White Rose, arrived at the temple and confronted Geralt and Nenneke, asking the witcher to leave Ellander by the orders of Duke Hereward. Tailles' attitude was met by Nenneke who declared the temple belonged to her and she decided who came and left, threatening the young knight with a small porcelain jar that was potentially harmful. Geralt decided to tell the men of his plans to leave Ellander in the next few days and adding insult to injury, started to insult Tailles, who furiously left the temple with his partner.
Geralt later went and saw Iola, explaining Kaer Morhen and his training as a witcher, as well as contracts he had taken throughout his life on the path. After spending some time alone and reading, Geralt was informed by Nenneke that Dandelion was at the temple to visit him, just before the poet turned around the corner. The two discussed recent events and Dandelion's education before the witcher bought out vodka and they started to drink, with Geralt complaining about a lack of work in the area. After his drink with Dandelion, Geralt went to the grotto in the garden and had a look at the many exotic herbs there while Nenneke harvested them. She asked him to stay a couple more days at the temple, which request was quickly turned down by the witcher, as he was preparing to leave that day.
After leaving the temple with Dandelion, the witcher started to ride towards the city of Ellander before he was confronted by Falwick, Tailles, and Dennis Cranmer, with Falwick declaring the young knight and the witcher must fight, as Tailles' pride had been injured at the temple. Falwick then informed Geralt that he had to throw the fight, as hitting the knight would have him arrested and thrown in front of Hereward. Geralt agreed to the fight and easily outmanoeuvred the young knight, making him hit himself in the face, which Falwick believed was worth Cranmer arresting Geralt according to his orders, but the dwarf believed that Tailles had hit himself and that wasn't worth arresting the witcher for. As Geralt prepared to leave, he threatened Falwick, saying if he ever threatened Nenneke or Cranmer again, he would die for it.
The two headed back to the temple, where he prepared to travel, packing up his horse and saying his goodbyes. Iola came out and gave him his elixirs and after their hands touched, she started to suffer a seizure, which Nenneke told Geralt to ignore and leave, which he did.
Dragon hunt
TBA
Aedd Gynvael
A while later, Geralt and Yennefer traveled to the city of Aedd Gynvael in Narok, and during their stay in the city, Geralt took on a contract on a nasty zeugl that had infested the sewers. While fighting the beast, he got stuck in a rubbish heap and was dragged through the filth, and after striking the killing blow, the beast's slime and bile spilled all over the witcher, adding to his stench.
After returning to the inn they were staying at, Yennefer made a deal of Geralt's smell and instantly made him bathe in seawater, while they discussed his fight with the zeugl. They then discussed the mage Istredd, a topic of jealousy for Geralt, and after discussing their plans in the city, they made love.
Meeting Triss
At some point, Geralt met the young sorceress Triss Merigold, a close friend of Yennefer's during their on-again-off again relationship. After a recent breakup, when Geralt was left feeling vulnerable and wanted to forget about her, Triss used a little bit of magic to seduce the witcher and the two began a short-lived relationship. However, after some time, Geralt chose to end the relationship out of guilt. The separation was difficult for Triss as she had fallen deeply in love with him. Despite this, the two remained good friends even though Triss was still unhappily in love with him, he did not wish to start anew.
Law of Surprise
TBA
Meeting Ciri
In 1263, Geralt travelled to the Brokilon forest where he happened across a young princess named Ciri, although Geralt was unaware of who she truly was. The dryads wished to keep her and attempt to turn her into one of their own, however, the Waters of Oblivion failed in her case. Geralt and Ciri managed to leave the forest together and he sent her back to her grandmother, Queen Calanthe. However, Geralt had already begun to feel bound to her.
Training Ciri at Kaer Morhen
In early 1265, after escaping the forests, Geralt and Ciri rode north to the safety of Kaer Morhen. After tying up Roach, and introducing Ciri to Eskel, Geralt went into the keep with the two and caught up with Lambert, Coën, and Vesemir, where they all agreed to start training the young girl.
In December, after spending a while training Ciri, mainly in the ways of combat, Geralt called for Triss Merigold to help her, as Ciri was displaying signs of a high magical aura. After Triss spent time with Ciri, she became disgusted at the bruises and welts all over her body from training, as well as the witcher's ignorance to her first period, which she had been told earlier in life not to tell men about. One night, while all in the keep had dinner and White Seagull, Triss sent Ciri into a trance, in an attempt to reveal what was causing the constant trances, against the wishes of Geralt, and ended up passing out. The next morning, she woke in the bed with Geralt and recommended they take Ciri to the Temple of Melitele in Ellander on the first day of spring, and seek out Yennefer's help in training her.
One night in the middle of February 1266 though, Geralt and the witchers were conversing with Triss in regards to their indifference to politics and went into detail about what happened during the Battle of Sodden Hill. Ciri ran into the room, proclaiming she'd stand by Triss in fighting the Nilfgaardians as they'd killed her grandmother; Ciri revealed she thought she was training to kill, as she wanted to kill the winged helmet knight that haunted her dreams. Geralt sharply chastised her, informing her they were training her to save lives, not to kill out of fear and hatred, before sending her out of the room.
Distraught, Ciri ran out into the courtyard and stopped on the ledge of one of the walls where she inspected her sword. As Geralt and Triss approached, she cried out that nobody was going to take her sword from her, but as she moved, she lost her footing and almost fell to her death but Geralt caught her in the nick of time. After speaking comforting words to Ciri, the three agreed it was time to head south to the temple in Ellander.
Road to the temple
After they left the keep, Triss, Geralt, and Ciri travelled south through Kaedwen, passing over the Gwenllech and Buina rivers, and eventually passing the capital, Ard Carraigh. Along the way, Triss grew quite ill in her saddle and was unable to travel for longer periods than an hour or two at a time, with her condition steadily getting worse.
Eventually, the three came across a fortress and bridge that had been recently attacked by Scoia'tael, and met with the Kaedwenian sergeant Unist stationed there. The man offered Triss a bed, hoping if she felt better, she may be able to magically heal his soldiers, while Geralt spoke of the Scoia'tael with Unist and a knight. They told him he would not find help at the fort, and to head south over the river and find a caravan in the woods that might have supplies. In the night Geralt came to the caravan and found Yarpen Zigrin and his company, who helped Triss by giving her garlic-salt bread, which he considered medicine. Geralt asked if they could join the company on the ten-day march south to the Lixela, as Triss could rest on the dwarves' cart. After Yarpen discussed it with Vilfrid Wenck, they agreed to start going south with the three.
Over several days of travel, Triss' sickness didn't get better and at one point they were stopped by a Dun Banner patrol, led by Zyvik, who warned them of Scoia'tael in the woods. One afternoon Ciri decided to run off ahead, followed by Geralt. He found her hiding in the bushes, spotting a Scoia'tael warrior across a ravine. He decided they should not tell the group, as to remain neutral, and leave with Ciri the next morning. While walking back, they passed through Shaerrawedd, an ancient elven palace, and Geralt told Ciri the story of Aelirenn. Suddenly Ciri sensed the group was in danger, so they galloped back to find the Scoia'tael attacking the company. After a short fight, and the deaths of Yannick Brass and Paulie Dahlberg, another Dun Banner patrol rode in and slaughtered the elves. Vilfrid had been stabbed in the skirmish, and so died on the ground in front of Geralt. The patrol revealed orders had forced the company into a trap, set up by Henselt to test the dwarves' loyalty to the Scoia'tael. After that, the company kept heading south and Triss, Geralt, and Ciri eventually reached the temple with no further issues.
Guarding the barge
In 1266, while Ciri was training at the Temple of Melitele in Ellander, Geralt left to look for work and took on a contract issued by the Malatius and Grock Company to guard the barge passing on the Pontar Delta between Foam and Novigrad, in an attempt to lure out the mage Rience. On six different occasions, the trip went successfully, until one day when he was talking to a young boy Everett. After finishing his conversation he met Linus Pitt, a tutor at the Oxenfurt Academy, and they discussed the local wildlife. As the boat neared the banks of Oxenfurt, Temerian guards on the shore called out for the arrest of Geralt for harboring Ciri, as Rience had put out a reward for their capture. Olsen stated Ciri was not aboard and lied about Geralt, telling the guards he was bound for trial in Oxenfurt. One of the guards swiftly grabbed Everett and held a cutlass to his throat, bargaining the young boy's life for Geralt's, who called out his surrender. As he went to leave the barge, the whole group was attacked by an aeschna, which started slaughtering the guards. After saving Everett from the creature, Geralt boarded the barge and watched the remaining guards die to arrowfire from the barge or be eaten by the creature. The barge then set sail to continue to Oxenfurt, where Geralt departed.
Dealing with Rience
In 1267, after arriving in Oxenfurt and meeting up with Dandelion, Geralt took shelter in the attic of Wolfgang Amadeus Goatbeard, a brewer friend of Dandelion's. After the young medical student Shani delivered a message to the witcher from Dandelion, she had sex with him in the attic bed, which was later interrupted by the bard visiting the attic himself. Dandelion explained Sigismund Dijkstra wasn't as interested in Verden, Rience, or Geralt, his true intentions lay with Ciri's location. Realizing their danger, Geralt prepared to depart at once, and as they went to climb through the attic window, Philippa Eilhart flew down in owl form to the roof, and after being revealed, polymorphed into her true form. They all started a discussion revealing to Geralt it was King Vizimir II who had ordered Dijkstra to find Ciri, and that she held great importance, with the Council of Wizards, Dijkstra, Vizimir, the Temerians, and Rience all hunting her. With that, Shani asked if Rience had a burn on his face, and after confirmation, revealed she knew him and where he was. With everyone looking at her in wonderment, Shani explained that tuition was too costly for her stepfather to cover all of it so she'd been stealing supplies from the school and selling on the side to a local named Myhrman. One day when conducting such business, Myhrman had been entertaining a guest he called "Master Rience" with a burn mark on his face and who'd made unwanted advances at Shani before Myhrman told him to cut it out, as he still wanted to do business with the medical student. With this new information, the group asked Shani to take them to the local, who was now Geralt's best lead in finding Rience.
That night they went to Myhrman's fortified house in the docks, and Shani drew him out pretending to be alone. After Myhrman let down the drawbridge, Geralt appeared from the shadows and punched him in the side of the head, rendering him unconscious and able to be tied up for interrogation. The witcher and Shani told him they knew about his relations with Rience, but Philippa grew tired of the merchant's deceit and started to torture him for information. Through his screams, Geralt obtained the location of a magic amulet he used to summon Rience.
As dawn approached, Geralt wandered the streets of Oxenfurt, having used the amulet and swallowed a witcher potion in preparation for finding Rience. He reached an alleyway near Myhrman's house where he heard four men, and then saw Rience walk into the light. After a quick conversion, the four men, the Michelet brothers, came out of the alleyway and attacked Geralt. With the use of pirouettes and speed, the witcher fought off the constant attacks, and killed them one-by-one, noticing Rience retreat back into the alley. As Rience continued to flee, Geralt ran after him and just stopped the mage's escape by portal, knocking him down. As the two began to fistfight, Rience grew weary and as Geralt went to stab him, Philippa appeared and held the witcher magically down, allowing Rience to escape through the portal. While Philippa claimed to have not betrayed them, that she had much larger plans for Rience, Geralt told her that every day he lived was a day she was supporting death.
Hirundum
In June, after Rience escaped his grasp, Geralt and Dandelion returned to Temeria and the witcher completed a contract on a fogler near Carreras, and a werewolf near Burdorff, rewarding him 50 crowns a contract. He was later asked by villagers to help them with a different monster problem. After a quick assessment, Geralt deduced it was an uncommon great manticore, and demanded 200 crowns for the contract. The townsman considered this too high a price, but the witcher made clear the danger leaving the manticore would entail, and so before he could back out, the merchants paid up. After quickly taking out his sword, Geralt slew the beast, with quick strokes and signs, much to the townspeoples' surprise and awe. He then took his lower payment of 150 crowns and rode from the crossroads to the local town Dorian for night's rest.
In the morning, he visited the offices of Codringher and Fenn, a lawyer duo Geralt knew. At first, Codringher provided information about Rience at the price of 250 crowns, and then introduced Geralt to Jacob Fenn, who had been studying the implications the rulers and Rience searching for Ciri held, and the origins of her father. Before leaving the offices, Codringher also suggested Geralt and Ciri hide away in Kaer Morhen, and provide a false Ciri in her place, though the witcher objected. Taking an 100 crown loan out, Geralt prepared to leave for Anchor, as the detective had also heard news of three assassins chasing Yennefer and Ciri along the road to the town. In Anchor, at the local inn, he met the messenger Aplegatt and told him to hide as he knew the assassins were near. Eventually, Ralf Blunden, Little Yaxa, and Heimo Kantor, the three assassins, were confronted and killed by Geralt outside the inn.
A few days later, he and Dandelion went to the village of Little Marsh, and then onto Hirundum, the Hofmeier family farm. Geralt's old friend Bernie had posted a notice for a witcher to investigate the recent drowning of a young boy in one of the farm's ponds, and Geralt knew it would be an opportune location to stay close to Thanedd Island where Ciri was to study. One stormy night, as he returned from a quick investigation, Ciri arrived at the farm on horseback, with Yennefer chasing via portal. Their first meeting in years, Geralt and the sorceress spent the following morning discussing her plans for all four of them to attend the Grand Mage's Conclave on Thanedd.
Thanedd coup
The following day, on the 30th, they rode to Thanedd, specifically to the palace Loxia, where they attended the reception and met everybody. Come evening, Geralt and Yennefer went with the other mages to Aretuza, and while Yennefer met up with friends, Geralt spoke to Sabrina Glevissig, Triss, Keira Metz, Philippa Eilhart, Dijsktra, Dorregaray and Marti Södergren throughout the banquet. Finally, he was approached by Vilgefortz and Lydia van Bredevoort, who took him on a tour of the Gallery of Glory, and after Lydia left, Vilfefortz offered a truce; join the traitors and live free, though Geralt refused. After returning to the banquet, Geralt and Yennefer said their goodnights and went to bed.
In the early hours of the morning, Geralt awoke and began walking through the garden, only to sense magic and the sounds of battle. He discovered several Redanian soldiers led by Dijkstra, who arrested him in case he defended the Nilfgaardian traitors while Keira arrested Artaud Terranova. She used a spell to temporarily blind the witcher, and he was led to Philippa, who was leading the Northern allies. Though later, after sending the traitors to Garstang to face trial, she restored his eyesight. Geralt was escorted by Dijkstra, who revealed he planned to capture Ciri and use her as a pawn for King Vizimir. Geralt fought off Dijkstra and his guards and Dandelion arrived to inform him that Ciri was gone. As Geralt made his way through Garstang, he could hear sounds and see signs of a battle occurring and encountered a few mages who told him that the magical barrier around the island had been lowered, and rival mages were attacking one another, along with Scoia'tael aligned with Nilfgaard. In the chaos, he found Ciri, who was in the grasp of the mage, Artaud Terranova, but he was attacked by Philippa and Geralt decapitated the mage, rescuing Ciri. He got her on horseback to flee, but she was pursued by Cahir, with Scoia'tael. He followed behind, killing the elves and seeing Cahir already helpless after fighting Ciri, who had fled prior. Geralt asked why he should spare him, and the knight told Geralt he rescued Ciri from the Slaughter of Cintra, and Geralt chose to leave the knight alive. Geralt soon found himself confronting Vilgefortz, and the mage easily beat Geralt down, nearly killing him, but choosing the spare the witcher. Geralt was found by Triss who tried to help him but was weak from the fighting. Tissaia chose to help Triss, teleporting Triss and Geralt away from the island.
Healing in Brokilon
Triss brought the witcher to the healing spa Col Serrai in Brokilon to recover from his injuries, and left him to heal. By August, Geralt was visited by Dandelion, who updated him of the events of the war, and so the two decided to travel to Brugge, where the bard had heard rumours mentioning the girl. Before leaving though, after 36 days in the forest, Geralt saw Milva who told him of the news of Ciri being in Nilfgaard (not knowing that it was a false Cirilla), and that the emperor may be planning to marry her. Upon hearing this, the witcher decided to head for Nilfgaard.
On the road
Geralt and Dandelion began their journey south following the Ribbon river to the Ceann Treise falls, where they planned their march to Verden, and then further onto Cintra along the Yaruga. As they set off and a heavy storm hit, they were surprised by two havekars, Kolda and his boss, though were quickly let go due to the traders mistaking the pair for elves because of their Brokilonian clothes. As they went to leave, however, Imperial agents arrived to grab the havekar's tied-up prisoner: Cahir aep Ceallach. While first furious at the belief the traders had killed Cahir, due to him being tied up in a coffin, the meeting then turned into a mutiny when the Imperials attacked their so-called "allies". Milva then arrived, having been following Geralt's trail, and helped the witcher kill the remaining Imperials. Spotting the coffin again, the group opened it and untied Cahir, and upon Geralt's first unveiling and near-distain of the Vicovarian, they ambivalently decided to spare only his life, untie him, and leave him there to fend for himself, being the second time the knight received mercy from the witcher, though he was warned of his doom should they meet again.
Despite Geralt's warning, Cahir took off after the group, though he never directly approached them. It was only several days later when the group, fed up with knowing someone was following them but not sure who, confronted them only to find Cahir once again in their presence. As Geralt demanded Cahir fight him, the knight stated he didn't wish to fight but to join them in rescuing Ciri. Geralt strongly objected to this, threatening to kill him once more but Cahir, unwillingly to pull out his weapon like Geralt demanded, reiterated that he didn't want to fight, leaving the two in a stalemate. Only when Milva stated she could put an arrow in his horse to prevent Cahir from catching up with them as they continued on did Cahir mount and run off.
Eventually, while travelling through the forest, they came across the dwarf Zoltan Chivay and his company. The dwarves told them of their plan to travel to the Turlough Hills, then the Old Road to the river Chotla in Sodden, before continuing onto the Ina. Zoltan, after hearing of the three wanderers journey south toward enemy clutches, invited them to join the dwarves on their march east, which was accepted.
Looking for the druids
Choosing to follow Regis's advice, Geralt and his company made their route to get to the druids of Caed Dhu, in hopes that they could help him locate Ciri. The company commandeered a ferry to cross the Yaruga, but as they crossed, they found themselves in the middle of two opposing forces of the Lyrian and Nilfgaardian armies. While fleeing both forces, the ferry landed on the bridge connecting the two shores. Milva was struck by an arrow, miscarrying and Regis had to tend to her, so Geralt and Cahir needed to protect their friend and decided to take up arms against the Nilfgaardians, both fighting the forces and inspiring the Lyrians to combat the foe, defeating the enemy. Despite his lack of interest in political matters, Geralt was brought to Queen Meve, who knighted him, properly granting him the title of Geralt of Rivia for his role in the battle.
In Toussaint
TBA
Stygga Castle
TBA
Reunited with Yennefer and Ciri
TBA
The Rivian Pogrom
TBA
Farewell and peace
TBA
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
Riding with the Wild Hunt
After Ciri departed to inhabit another world, Geralt and Yennefer lived together peacefully in a house with an orchard on the Island of Avallach and the couple stopped counting time. Tragically the Wild Hunt eventually discovered them, burning down their island and kidnapped Yennefer. Geralt returned to reality and set out on The Path. Over several months, Geralt travelled throughout the Northern Realms in order to find and rescue Yennefer.
On September 13, 1269, Geralt crossed The Ravine of the Hydra where he saw the elven corpses of the 53 Vrihedd Brigade officers who had been executed and dropped into the chasm. In November, 23, He journeyed to Cintra, the village of Coldwater, where he witnessed a victim of The Hunt's wrath, an eleven-year-old boy. On February 24, 1270, Geralt climbed through a high pass in the Armush Mountains and faced off against an imperial manticore. He defeated the old and deadly beast whose pelt helped him to survive the harsh winter conditions. On May 30, 1270, In The Yaruga River, Geralt learned that The Wild Hunt continued their pursuit down south and had taken twenty-three individuals under their command.
On July 25, 1270, in the forests of Angren, Geralt encountered a witcher named Letho who had been mortally wounded by a slyzard and saved him. Grateful for his help, Letho informed him about The Wild Hunt 's location and offered his assistance to find them and was accompnaied by his companions Serrit and Auckes. The group eventually reached up to them on the Winter Solstice, at the Hanged Man's Tree in Nilfgaard. The Witchers fought valiantly against the spectral riders, however despite their combined skill they were outnumbered and unable to defeat them all. Ultimately a stalemate ensued and a deal was made between Geralt and their leader Eredin. He offered his soul in exchange for Yennefer's, Eredin agreed to his terms and released her.
Geralt rode with the Red Riders for an unspecified amount of time. He was eventually released from the Wild Hunt's grip by Ciri who sensed that he was in danger and deposited him in the woods outside of Kaer Morhen. This event caused Geralt to suffer from amnesia and was left with no recollection of his time with The Wild Hunt.
Recovered memories
Six months after the events of Loc Muinne, Geralt having finally recovered his memory, set out on the trail to find Yennefer. He decided to split up from Triss, for reasons unknown and the two went their separate ways. Geralt later reunited with his mentor Vesemir who offered his aid in finding Yennefer. Once the pair hunted down a fiend named Drugan in Vorune.
Killing Monsters
TBA
Dealing with the griffin
In May 1272, Geralt and Vesemir were headed to the village of Willoughby, following the instructions of a recent letter from Yennefer, who they were trying to meet up with. However, having heard Willoughby had been burned to the ground, they instead stopped in White Orchard. In Geralt's search for more information on Yennefer's whereabouts, it eventually led to the two witchers taking on a contract to kill a local griffin in the area. After killing it and learning the sorceress was in Vizima, the two prepared to leave White Orchard but got into a fight in the inn and ran into no other than Yennefer herself as they left the building, complete with a Nilfgaardian escort. The sorceress explained that Emperor Emhyr var Emreis had summoned Geralt to Vizima, and that he needed to come with her back to the palace. Saying his goodbyes to Vesemir, Geralt then rode off with the group but soon after the Wild Hunt attacked the group, with only Geralt and Yennefer managing to escape thanks to Yennefer's magic.
Searching for Ciri
Following the attack from the Wild Hunt, Geralt and Yennefer arrived in Vizima. The witcher met with the emperor, who tasked him with finding Ciri, as she was needed for reasons of state, and the witcher would be well compensated. Accepting the job, he conversed with Yennefer about possible leads. She told him about one of the emperor's spies named Hendrik, who lived around the Inn at the Crossroads in Velen, who she thought might possibly know Ciri's whereabouts. With no time to waste, the two said their farewells and Geralt rode off to Velen.
Geralt eventually found out that Hendrik was living in Heatherton but found out too late: the Wild Hunt had arrived earlier and tortured Hendrik for information but finally killed the spy after he wouldn't give them anything. Fortunately, Geralt managed to find the spy's hidden room with notes on possible leads where Ciri was seen, including quarreling with a witch in Midcopse and in the company of a local called the Bloody Baron at Crow's Perch.
Close to the town of Midcopse, Geralt met with Keira Metz, believing she may have been the witch that Ciri had quarrelled with. She knew nothing of Ciri's whereabouts, but suggested the two meet with an elven sage in the underground ruins near Byways, who had met Ciri recently. After arriving, they found that the Wild Hunt had beaten them there, which resulted in Geralt and Keira battling Nithral, a general of the Hunt. They found nothing but morphotic projections left for Ciri, mentioning the Witches of Crookback Bog, an ancient threat that Keira explained to Geralt, who was now determined to find them.
Geralt then visited nearby Crow's Perch, and visited the Bloody Baron, who explained his meeting with Ciri and promised more information if he could track down his wife Anna, and daughter Tamara, who were both missing. In Anna's room, Geralt found evidence of a fight and stench of wine, which led him to a saffron filled talisman under the floorboards. He tracked the smell of saffron to the basement and found Tamara had constructed a shrine to the Eternal Fire. With enough evidence, he confronted the baron about the signs of fighting, which he was clueless to due to his drinking. Phillip suggested the witcher visit the Pellar at his hut near Blackbough. At the Pellar's hut, Geralt was tasked with tracking down Princess, the Pellar's goat, as she was needed for a ceremony that could help find Anna and Tamara. After finding the goat and performing the ceremony, the Pellar told Geralt to either lift the curse on a botchling or kill it and take its blood.
Lifting the botchling's curse led Geralt to the fisherman Voytek at his hut near Crow's Perch. Voytek told Geralt his part of Anna and Tamara's story, explaining the same as Keira, that his answer may lie in Crookback Bog. Geralt also travelled to Oxenfurt, where he met Tamara, who was alive and well at Voytek's brothers house. With all this information, the witcher returned to the Bloody Baron, who explained some of the times Ciri and him had spent together near the keep. He told the witcher to find his wife and then he would finish his story.
In Crookback Bog, Geralt followed the "Trail of Treats" until he came upon an orphanage. He found Gran, an old woman who was running the orphanage, and a group of kids that led him to Johnny, a godling who had lost his voice. After Geralt helped Johnny reclaim his voice, the godling helped him convince Gran to summon the Witches of Crookback Bog. The witches instructed Geralt to travel to Downwarren and meet the ealdorman there. In Downwarren, the ealdorman asked Geralt to clear an ancient threat at the Ancient Oak nearby.
At the Ancient Oak, Geralt heard whispers around a cave, which led him to the The Ghost in the Tree. The spirit wished Geralt to release her from the captivity of the oak.
After finishing the contract, the ealdorman gave Geralt payment and so the witcher headed back into Crookback Bog. The crones poloymorphed and told Geralt of how they had found Ciri near the orphanage, and attempted to eat her before she escaped into the bog. Gran then revealed herself as Anna Strenger, driven crazy by her husband and the bog, now in servitude to the crones.
Back at Crow's Perch, the baron took news of his wife hard and asked the witcher to venture back into the swamp to rescue her with him. He also fulfilled his promise to tell Geralt of where Ciri had gone; toward Novigrad as she was being pursued by the Wild Hunt.
End of game canon content.
The following is considered comics canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
Business in Ofir
In 1273, Geralt was in Novigrad after being seriously injured on a contract. He got into a brawl with a racist, which was promptly broken up by Master van Schagen, a Redanian man requesting help with a job. He told the witcher of a man creeping into his daughter's room, meanwhile bypassing the guards and remaining silent and unseen. Accepting the contract, the two left for Van Schagen residence to investigate.
That night, Geralt discovered the "ghost" meeting Celia van Schagen was non-other than Dandelion, who was currently courting the young lady. Confronting him, Dandelion revealed he had ended his relationship with Priscilla, and was showing Celia a magic trunk he had won in Oxenfurt. Despites Geralt's warnings, Dandelion read aloud the glowing runes written on the trunk, capturing the two of them and flying them to Ofir.
Upon arrival, the two left the tower they had landed on top of, and were instantly surrounded by Ofiri guards. They were arrested and taken before Malliq Nibras, the leader of Ofir, and played innocent with Geralt taking the name of Lambert. Nibras told "Lambert" he must travel to the north, and kill Geralt of Rivia, the witcher that had slayed his son Sirvat; until this job was completed he would keep Dandelion at the palace as a "guest". That evening, Geralt met with Radeyah, the crown sorceress who knew his true identity, despite their trickery. She told him about her reviving the maliq's wife Zaira, and about the murders that had followed of the concubines of the maliq.
The next morning, Geralt and Radeyah attacked Zaira in the palace gardens, knocking her unconscious. After discovering that she radiated a strong magically aura, they left as Maraal, the crown assassin had arrived. He confronted Geralt outside the city gates, and the two fought, with Maraal blind with fury that they had attacked Zaira. Geralt taunted him about a possible secret relationship, and then drove his sword through the assassin's chest.
The sorceress and witcher met in private, discussing the battle, when suddenly they heard a scream outside. Dayo, one of the maliq's concubines, had been killed by a djinn. Hours later, they met again in a cave outside the city, where Geralt fought off Falaks in order to collect sewant mushrooms. They discussed Yennefer before being attacked again, this time by a large insectoid creature.
They next went to the dead mage Aamad's workshop to create Archeus' salt, a substance handy for fighting djinns. Geralt left to find Zaira, who was in the throne room, possessing Nibras. The witcher and sorceress clashed, until Geralt managed to slay her with his sword. He was arrested by the guards, and thrown into jail for her murder. The next day he faced trial, where Nibras sentenced him to be flayed alive. Dandelion defended the witcher, but suggested instead that he be locked in a trunk and thrown in the sea. Standing on the cliff's edge the next day, Geralt was thrown into the sea but activated the magical runes in order to escape drowning.
The next night, Geralt confronted Nemet, the city coroner about where he buried bodies. They found the hole, where Zaira was lying a week deceased, before being attacked by giant crows. Following the battle, Geralt realized they had torn Nemet to pieces, so he left towards the palace alone. He met with Fathaa, who explained the curse and runes better. Before leaving Ofir, the witcher met one last time with Radeyah, revealing that he knew her entire plan to frame Geralt after cursing Zaira. Instead of killing her however, he sent her in a magic trunk to Yennefer. The witcher then left Ofir with Dandelion, boarding a ship at the docks.
End of comics canon content.
Personality
Most of the time, Geralt could be apathetic, cynical, and threatening. Despite his outwardly cold nature, Dandelion noted that behind his exterior was hiding a fiercely loyal friend, a man of good humour, and someone not indifferent to suffering. Geralt had many good friends all over the Northern Realms, such as Caldemeyn of Blaviken, Zoltan Chivay, and of course Dandelion. He was also very protective of and loyal to his friends and companions, and was willing to go to great lengths for those who mattered to him. He could be kind-hearted and caring to the people he loved.
Geralt was also shown to be extremely adept at allaying intense, and at times bleak, situations and as a man who would much sooner have everyone return home than draw their swords. His lifespan made him a world-weary man, often expressing disdain and circuitous insults to those he considered cruel, foolish, etc. He may have risked Temeria's future to save Triss Merigold from the Nilfgaardians. He also was shown requesting Scoia'tael to spare Dandelion and kill only him.
Geralt frequently showed remorse and had revelations during his life. Other times he had complete emotional breakdowns, even giving up being a witcher in general and dropping his morals at one point.
Legacy
The story of Geralt and Ciri became a popular saga many years, probably centuries, after the actual events had taken place. The chief sources of these stories were Dandelion's ballads and the bard's autobiography Half a Century of Poetry. However, Dandelion was not fond of telling the whole truth, and ultimately many versions of Geralt's and Ciri's adventures were spread far and wide, including simplified and harmless children's tales, leading scholars to struggle in distinguishing those stories that were considered canon from those that seemed non-canonical and embellished.
Many years in the future, the sorceress Nimue verch Wledyr ap Gwyn and her assistant Condwiramurs Tilly conducted extensive research into the matter, in an attempt to determine what had really happened to Geralt and Ciri.
The Witcher
Abigail: I heard witchers carry 2 - a silver blade for monsters and steel for humans...Geralt: Both are for monsters.- Abigail and Geralt discussing weapons, The Witcher
Prologue
After seemingly having been killed by a mob during a pogrom of nonhumans at the end of the Witcher saga, Geralt returns to life with no recollection of the details of his sudden reappearance or of the five intervening years. He is rescued by the last remaining witchers in the world and is taken back to Kaer Morhen. There, he is drawn into a complicated conspiracy concerning the witchers, their secrets, and the nefarious forces that are after that knowledge.
Shortly after Geralt's return to Kaer Morhen, an attack is launched on the fortress by an unknown organization, spearheaded by two mages. Though one mage is unknown to her, Triss recognizes the other as Savolla. Geralt provides assistance to his friends in repelling the attack, before Vesemir proclaims that the party must split up as the two mages, having unleashed a frightener in the main courtyard, have descended into the witchers' laboratory to procure the secrets they are in pursuit of. Vesemir offers Geralt the choice of either going after the mages with Triss, or staying to assist the other witchers in defeating the frightener.
Later, Leo and Geralt find Triss in an injured state, and descend to the laboratory in order to stop the mages from absconding with the secret formulae. When confronted with the witchers, one of the attackers, namely, The Professor, kills Leo with a crossbow bolt before teleporting away, along with the mages and a sizeable portion of the witchers' writings.
During Leo's funeral, Vesemir decides that the attackers, known as Salamandra, must be tracked down and forced to pay for their transgressions. He tells Geralt to use Temeria as a starting point in his search, as he once lifted a curse there from Foltest's daughter.
Geralt pursues the mysterious Salamandra, and in the process meets many people from his past, as well as new acquaintances who either require the witcher's help or offer their own in his quest to regain his identity.
Chapter I
Vizima is under quarantine due to the Catriona plague, and Geralt cannot enter it as he lacks the necessary letter of safe conduct. Thus, he settles in Vizima's outskirts. During the night, Geralt is attacked by spectral hounds, known as barghests, which were in pursuit of a woman and child. The witcher manages to rescue a boy named Alvin, who levitates and recites Ithlinne's Prophecy in a disturbing voice after the attack, revealing himself to be a Source. Shortly thereafter, Geralt meets Shani, a red-haired medic hailing from Oxenfurt who arrived here to help quell the Catriona epidemic. She decides to place the now-orphaned Alvin under her care. Geralt also meets the alchemist Kalkstein, a trader named Declan Leuvaarden, and Zoltan Chivay, an old friend from Geralt's past life.
Geralt seeks out the Reverend, who agrees to assist him in obtaining passage to the city if he fulfils the contract on The Beast, a certain entity which is thought to be responsible for the barghests. The Reverend sends Geralt to assist three pillars of the community: Odo, Mikul, and Haren Brogg.
The trader Odo tasks Geralt with weeding out the echinops in his garden after a session of heavy drinking. Mikul sends the witcher to clear the local crypt of ghouls, wherein Geralt discovers the corpse of a poisoned woman. Haren Brogg tasks Geralt with driving away the drowners from his goods by the riverbank. It becomes apparent, however, that Haren is actually a hawker, after a regiment of Scoia'tael attempts to take away the goods Geralt was tasked to protect.
The Reverend then offers Geralt to deal with Abigail, a local witch, to whom Shani has now transferred her responsibility over Alvin. The witch carries out a magical procedure in which she attempts to communicate with the spirit of the White Frost in Alvin awakened by the Beast. It confers that the Beast's appearance was caused by the sins of the local residents.
Geralt returns to the Inn, wherein he discovers a group of Salamandra fighters assaulting Shani. After dealing with them, the witcher pursues the other members of the Salamandra. Upon reaching their cavernous lair, Geralt discovers Alvin inside who was taken from Abigail's home and turned over to the group by the Reverend and his followers. Further along the cave system, Geralt and Alvin meet Abigail, who asks for the witcher's help in fleeing the enraged crowd that has amassed outside. Geralt makes a choice, either to save Abigail from being lynched, or to leave her to the judgment of the Outskirts' residents. After deciding, he defeats the Beast and the barghests.
Later, after receiving a pass into Vizima from the Reverend, or taking it from his corpse, Geralt returns to the Inn, and travels to the city with Shani. However, he is stopped by Mikul at the gates and is turned over to the city guard.
Journal entry
 
A book entitled "The Rivian Pogrom" claims that Geralt, known also as the White Wolf, died during a massacre of non-humans. The pogrom took place in the city of Rivia just after the second war with Nilfgaard. Geralt was killed by an angry mob when he tried to defend the oppressed. The sorceress Triss Merigold and the dwarf Zoltan Chivay witnessed his death. The witcher's body was never found.
The bard Dandelion recounts the adventures of the witcher Geralt in his ballads. After reading them, one may conclude that the White Wolf was the most famous witcher of his time. He actively participated in many historical events, such as the mage rebellion on Thanedd Island. Dandelion's poems are mostly devoted to Geralt's fights against monsters, the numerous romantic entanglements for which he is famous, and to his love for a certain sorceress.
Some years ago, Geralt of Rivia came to King Foltest's court in search of work. He obtained a contract to free the monarch's daughter Adda from a spell which had turned her into a striga, or to kill her if all else failed. The witcher managed to free the girl from the spell, and discovered that one of the courtiers had been responsible for the curse.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Fucking idiot actually went in.
- Geralt on Dandelion willing entering a succubus' lair, The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Journal entry
Behold our hero: subjected to mutations and rigorous sword and sorcery training as a child, he has become a superhuman monster slayer. Always penniless and often disdained by those whom he protects, he wanders the world seeking work. Fate has little mercy for him, piling obstacles in his way, yet he trudges on. He has more scruples than a beggaring bum has fleas. Doubts haunt him even when a band of ruffians, knives drawn, approaches him on the highway. Is he a good man? I do not think so. Does he try to maintain his humanity? I believe he does.
You must know that Geralt of Rivia died once already, or at least everyone thought him dead. During a massacre in Rivia, he sought to defend nonhumans and fell to overwhelming odds. Placed in a boat, he floated into the mist, into a realm where he finally found peace, but not for long. Because of forces mentioned later, Geralt returned just in time to defend the witchers' ancient home fortress, and then embarked on a mission to recover the secrets stolen from it. Along the way he took part in a Scoia'tael uprising, shattered a powerful criminal organization, and killed the Grand Master of the Order of the Flaming Rose. All the while his fame as a lover grew. Well, that's Geralt for you. As if all this wasn't enough, he then foiled the attempted assassination of King Foltest of Temeria and became one of the monarch's most trusted men.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
 
The third installment of the trilogy, like its predecessors, follows Geralt through his final adventures. Following the events of Witcher 2, Geralt has regained his memory of the past and prepares to embark on a new journey. In the Witcher 3, Geralt is on the hunt for the only person he considers kin, Ciri. Along his journey, Geralt must face the Wild Hunt in order to protect the people he cares about.
In the new open world, Geralt has the opportunity to complete quests that are both part of the main story and side quests. He will also interact with old friends Dandelion and Vesemir along with potential lovers Triss Merigold and Yennefer.
Journal entry
Many cannot fathom the friendship Geralt of Rivia and I, Dandelion, have shared all these years. When we first began breaking bread together, spiteful tongues said he'd be better off cutting my throat and dumping my body in a hollow tree – before I provoked someone else into doing that same to us both. Those individuals spoke out of pure jealousy, for Geralt was my dearest friend, a fact which he gave ample evidence of on numerous occasions.
I could say a great deal about that world-famous monster hunter, the man known in Elder Speech as Gwynbleidd, or, in our younger (yet no less noble) tongue, as the White Wolf. For Geralt of Rivia is a truly exceptional individual. A brief encounter might tempt one to label him a mere swinger of swords, a simple monster-catcher, a rough-and-tumble practitioner of a dirty trade – but peer closer and you will soon discover he is a man of unplumbed depths, unique views and vast, world-spanning experience.
On the surface, he is introverted, tight-lipped, and one might even say gruff, but underneath lies an overflowing sea of goodwill, good humour, and an honest readiness to help his friends, be it with a bit of sound advice or the masterful application of his blade.
Setting aside cumbersome false modesty, I can say that I know his story better than any man alive. I was with him through hard times and good, helping with wise advice, warm words and razor wit. As a result, I am a vital part of his story, both in its earlier and present portions. It is thus my duty to continue my chronicle and, for the benefit of future generations, put in writing the next chapter of his deeds and exploits.
Hearts of Stone expansion
Step again into the shoes of Geralt of Rivia, a professional monster slayer. This time travel back to the wilds of Velen and the nooks and alleys of Oxenfurt where he'll try to complete a contract from the mysterious Man of Glass, hired to defeat a ruthless bandit captain and Redanian nobleman, Olgierd von Everec, a man who possesses the power of immortality. Geralt, caught in a thick tangle of deceit, will need all his cunning and strength to solve the mystery and emerge unscathed.
Blood and Wine expansion
As Geralt of Rivia again, travel to a land untainted by war: the Nilfgaardian region of Toussaint, where you will unravel the horrifying secret behind a beast terrorizing the kingdom. With all trails leading to dead ends, only a witcher can solve the mystery and survive the evil lurking in the night as an atmosphere of carefree indulgence and knightly ritual masks an ancient, bloody secret.
The Witcher Adventure Game
 
Geralt is one of the four playable characters in The Witcher: Adventure Game.
He is called there "MONSTER SLAYER - DEADLY IN COMBAT".
The Witcher Battle Arena
 
Geralt of Rivia was one of playable characters in the now defunct MOBA and had a lot of interesting weapons, skills, and skins. He was a warrior class hero.
Hero description
A witcher, a wandering solution in search of his next problem; a man who's seen as many caves and trolls as he has kings, queens, and courts. In the Arena, Geralt excels as a dueler, but also brings some utility (crowd control support skills) to the table. His first ability (The Way of the Sword) is a three-stage sword attack: Geralt performs a pirouette, then follows it up with two quick slashes. As a witcher, he is also able to wield a simple form of magic called Signs: The Way of Signs enables him to use the Yrden Sign to set a magic trap which slows all opponents in its range. Then there is The Way of Alchemy: after chugging a potion powerful enough to kill one elephant, Geralt gains the strength of three, and his two skills gain new effects: The Way of the Sword now slows enemies, and The Way of Signs now casts the Heliotrope Sign, which not only slows, but also damages opponents.
Skins
Blue Stripes Jacket - €1,99 - 1000
Armor Of Loc Muinne - €1,99 - 1000
Griffin School Garb - €1,99 - 1000
Armor Of The Cat - €1,99 - 1000
Weapons
Voice of Kaer Morhen - €4,99 - 1000
Zerrikanian Slasher - €2,99 - 750
Twin Blade - €2,99 - 750
Monster Hunter - €0,99 - 500
The Witcher Adventure Game
Geralt of Rivia—a witcher, a wandering solution in search of his next problem. He is a man who's seen as many caves and trolls as he has kings, queens, and courts. Witchers are mutants, trained from early childhood for one task: to protect the peoples of the Continent from the innumerable foul creatures that inhabit it.
There are several schools of witchers, represented by the different medallions their members wear around their neck. The wolf medallion Geralt bears warns him of impending danger or nearby magic by gently vibrating. In recent years, the witcher caste has dwindled down to only a handful of active hunters; with so few of them left, the world is beginning to resemble the times before witchers came to be.
Geralt possesses superhuman reflexes and strength, and his sword fighting skills are second to none. Like every witcher, Geralt fights with two swords: a silver sword, dedicated to combating monsters and creatures of magical origin, and a steel one, primarily used to deal with ferocious animals and the occasional bandit who thinks he can best a master swordsman. Using witcher Signs and special potions, he can tip the scales of any battle in his favor. Being a witcher, Geralt's main occupation is slaying monsters, but he won't hesitate to prove a (usually bloody) point when humans or non-humans try to stand in his way. Geralt strives to maintain his witcher neutrality, but he will sometimes lend a hand to others, even if it drags him into the middle of some mess. Witchers are known for being cold and emotionless due to the mutations they undergo, but Geralt's process must have gone differently, for he is capable of feelings and emotions and a surprising amount of empathy toward others. Living in a world where morality is a concept known mostly to those who aren't hungry, the famous witcher of Rivia remains one of the few beacons of hope...if you have the orens to hire him.
In Other Languages
Flag
Language
Geralt
 
English
Geralt of Rivia
Polish (original)
Geralt z Rivii
Arabic
جيرالت من ريفيا
Brazilian Portuguese
Geralt de Rívia
Bulgarian
Гералт от Ривия Geralt ot Riviya
Chinese Simplified
利维亚的杰洛特Lì wéi yǎ de jié luò tè
Croatian
Geralt od Rivije
Czech
Geralt z Rivie
Dutch
Geralt van Rivia
Estonian
Riivimaa Geralt
Farsi (Persian)
گرالت از (اهل) رِویافارسی گرالت اهل ریویا
Finnish
Geralt Rivialainen
French
Geralt de Riv
ქართული (Georgian)
გერალტი რივიიდან
German
Geralt von Riva
Greek
Γκέραλτ της ΡιβίηςGkéralt ti̱s Rivíi̱s
Hebrew
גראלט מריוויה
Hungarian
Ríviai Geralt
Italian
Geralt di Rivia
Japanese
リヴィアのゲラルトRivia no Geraruto
Latvian
Geralts no Rivijas
Lithuanian
Geraltas iš Rivijos
Macedonian
Гералт од РивијаGeralt od Rivija
Romanian
Geralt din Rivia
Russian
Геральт из РивииGeralt iz Rivii
Serbian
Гералт из РивијеGeralt iz Rivije
Slovak
Geralt z Rivie
Slovenian
Geralt iz Rivie
Spanish
Geralt de Rivia
Swedish
Geralt av Rivia
Turkish
Rivyalı Geralt
Ukrainian
Ґеральт з РівіїGeralt z Ryviyi
Appearances
Books
The Last Wish
Sword of Destiny
Blood of Elves
Time of Contempt
Baptism of Fire
The Tower of the Swallow
The Lady of the Lake
Season of Storms
Something Ends, Something Begins
Adaptations
The Hexer
The World of the Witcher
Netflix's The Witcher
Games
The Witcher
The Price of Neutrality
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
Hearts of Stone expansion
Blood and Wine expansion
Gwent: The Witcher Card Game
Thronebreaker: The Witcher Tales
The Witcher Adventure Game
The Witcher Battle Arena
Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
Comics
Droga bez powrotu
Zdrada
Geralt comic
Mniejsze zło
Ostatnie życzenie
Granica możliwości
Reasons of State
House of Glass
Fox Children
Killing Monsters
Matters of Conscience
Curse of Crows
Of Flesh and Flame
Fading Memories
Witch's Lament
Once Upon a Time in the Woods
Ronin
A Grain of Truth
The Ballad of Two Wolves
Frog Kiss
Wild Animals
The Lesser Evil
Trivia
Geralt is a variation of the English and Germanic name "Gerald" meaning "rule of the spear".
Geralt's name in the Elder Speech, "Gwynbleidd", is very similar to the Welsh translation of "white wolf", which is blaidd gwyn.
CD PROJEKT RED revealed in a Q&A on Raptr that the first publishing offer they got for The Witcher was on the condition that they make Geralt female along with some other changes.
A Geralt postage stamp is available in Poland.
Geralt appears as a guest character in Soulcalibur VI.
Geralt also appears in Capcom's Monster Hunter: World.
Geralt is available as a skin in Fortnite.
In Zdrada, Geralt's hair turned white because of the stress and pain of killing his friend Gweld.
Notes

Age
Geralt's age was not specified in Andrzej Sapkowski's novels until the release of Rozdroże kruków in 2024, which clarified the date of the character birth as 1211, making him 38 years younger than Yennefer who was born 1173. This follows on what the author said in Nie bądź, kurwa, taki Geralt interview from 1997, that the protagonist is "over 50, but he tells no one how much over". Sapkowski proceeded to explain that the witchers age slower than ordinary humans and a 60-year-old witcher would look no older than a 45-year-old man. While humans in the world of the Witcher live longer than those from Earth's medieval period, there is still a prejudice towards "giving the job to an old duffer over 50", so Geralt decides to hide his age.
In turn, the adaptations produced before the release of Rozdroże kruków, apparently made without awareness of the aforementioned interview, tend to depict Geralt much older. In Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni, Geralt is born a year earlier than Yennefer (thus 1174 in the correct chronology). In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, set in 1272, Vesemir tells Geralt "You're nearly a century old yourself", while Netflix's The Witcher timeline has him born in 1160, making him 32 years older than Yen who is born in 1192 of the show's chronology.
Zdrada comic book, on the other hand, makes Geralt younger than Rozdroże kruków, as witcher meets child Dandelion even before graduating Kaer Morhen. In the novels timeline, Dandelion is born in 1229, the year Geralt graduates. It's also possible, however, that instead of making Geralt younger, the comics make Dandelion older.
A common misconception is that Geralt must have been over a hundred years old because of an assumption that the Kaer Morhen Pogrom marked the end of the Witcher Trials being performed there. This is however incorrect; the School was functioning for years after the massacre, and according to Blood of Elves, the last boys were trained there about 25 years before the events of the novel.
Other
Most of The Witcher 2 promotional screenshots or artwork featuring Geralt display a fairly different model, an early design, even the cover of the game doesn't use the in-game model for Geralt. A different model was planned to replace Geralt's face from The Witcher, but due to protests in Poland, CDP edited the old model and placed it into the game.
Gallery
Illustration in book by Jana KomárkováIn The Hexer film and TV showThe Witcher alternate journal imageThe Witcher concept artIn The Witcher 2: Assassins of KingsConcept art for The Witcher 2: Assassins of KingsFull model in The Witcher 2: Assassins of KingsThe Witcher 3: Wild Hunt gwent card artThe Witcher 3: Wild Hunt alternative gwent card cardGeralt and Triss ending in The Witcher 3: Wild HuntGeralt and Yennefer ending in The Witcher 3: Wild HuntIn the Hearts of Stone expansionIn the Blood and Wine expansionGwent: The Witcher Card Game card artIn the Polish The Witcher comicsIn Reasons of StateIn House of GlassIn Fox ChildrenIn Killing MonstersIn Matters of ConscienceIn Curse of CrowsIn Of Flesh and FlameIn Fading MemoriesIn Witch's LamentIn Once Upon a Time in the WoodsIn RoninIn A Grain of TruthIn The Ballad of Two WolvesIn Frog KissIn Wild AnimalsIn The Lesser EvilCharacter sketches for The Lesser EvilGwent: The Witcher Card Game avatar (based on the first game)Gwent: The Witcher Card Game avatar (based on the third game)Gwent: The Witcher Card Game avatar (Skelligan clothes)Gwent: The Witcher Card Game avatar (intoxicated from potions)