GWENT: Rogue Mage Events

Map
As you progress through the playthrough, there are a number of different scenarios that can appear on the map.
BattleA regular enemy awaits you.
Boss BattleA powerful monster awaits you. Defeat it to obtain a mutagen.
Elite BattleA formidable enemy awaits you. Defeat them to evolve your key card.
EventSomething interesting can be found here.
Place of PowerRestore energy or use a special ability based on element.
Treasure ChestGain a treasure.
Place of Power
Places of Power allow you the option to either modify your deck, or gain 20 energy. The modification depends on the element (colour) present at the Place of Power, which can be seen from the map.
Aard
Duplicate a card.
Axii
Upgrade a unit by 3.
Igni
Remove a card.
Quen
Transform a card.
Events
There are a number of events that can occur when progressing through the map. They are marked with the blue "?". The outcome of each event depends on the choice you make.
Ancient Writings

Without the Eye of Nehaleni in your deck
Whilst travelling late into the evening, you find the ruins of an old elven structure bathed in the light of a full moon. Upon numerous walls and pillars, strange symbols softly shine.
You've always been fond of deciphering ancient scripts and decide to spend some time trying to understand the mysterious etchings.
Your mind works overtime as you begin to decipher the ancient text.
It appears to be a series of questions.
You could very well be mistaken, but you think the answer to the first part is:
You scratch your chin and raise an eyebrow. This is your thinking face.
Not entirely sure of your conclusion, you suppose that maybe the answer this time is quite possibly:
You've pondered these symbols long enough and are now confident of your ability to read them.
Your eyes pan over the etchings one last time and you settle on your final guess:
An illusionary wall disappears. Behind it, a mass of light shines brightly.
 Upgrade a unit by 2.
 Upgrade a unit by 5.
 Upgrade all units by 1.
Lured by the enticing glow, you reach out your hand. As soon as you touch it, the light disappears, leaving only a pleasant heat tingling at the tips of your fingers.
With the Eye of Nehaleni in your deck
Whilst travelling late into the evening, you find the ruins of an old elven structure bathed in the light of a full moon. Upon numerous walls and pillars, strange symbols softly shine.
When moving closer to the mysterious etchings, the Eye of Nehaleni hums and glows. You decide to use the relic, waving it in a sweeping gesture.
An illusionary wall disappears. Behind it, a mass of light shines brightly.
 Upgrade all units in your deck by 1.
Lured by the enticing glow, you reach out your hand. As you touch the light, it brightens, shimmers, then plunges into your body. For a moment, you feel an intense burning within, but the pain quickly turns into a pleasant warmth radiating through you.
Blizzard
The wind strengthens, kicking up blankets of powdery snow before turning into a full-on gale. You shield your face from the unrelenting torrent of snow, from the shards of ice splintering in the storm and whipping towards you.
 Lose 15 energy.
 Gain a Wound. Despite your better judgement, you march onwards against the cyclone of snow. Surely, it will calm down soon...
 Lose 10 energy.
 Gain a Wound. You slog through the snow and ice, feeling more confident that the storm will soon subside...
 Lose 5 energy.
 Gain a Wound. As fast as it appeared, the snowstorm has gone, but not without leaving some marks.
Bonfire Celebration
Locals have gathered together to celebrate... something. Some sit around the bonfire sharing stories, while others dance and play music on woodwind instruments.
You sit down next to the flames and someone immediately offers you a bowl. Inside it, a thick broth bubbles.
 You take the bowl and nod. You've never been one to reject the hospitality of others, especially when so many of them are glaring at you. You stare into the simmering liquid, the star-speckled sky reflecting upon its dark sheen. Everyone watches you with wide, wet eyes as you slowly bring the bowl to your lips and take a sip...
Upgrade a unit by 3.
 - (TBA)
Cartographer
You meet a travelling cartographer who's currently collecting geographical data for a map of the region.
Proud of his work, he offers to show you his map-in-progress.
 Though you're well-travelled in these parts, you think it's perhaps wise to study the cartographer's map, just in case.
 Transform the next node into a random one. You examine the map and plan your path accordingly.
The Dream
You slowly open your heavy eyes. There is only darkness. Are you dreaming?
From somewhere in the shadows, a figure shimmers into view, his body translucent and strange. He beckons you closer and offers you great power to help you on your quest. But such power, of course, comes with a cost...
 He grins. 'What do you wish for?'
 Gain full energy. Remove from your deck.
 Upgrade all units in your deck by 1. Lose all energy.
 Gain Girdle of Giant Strength, and Glorious Standard. Downgrade all units in your deck by 1.
'As you wish!' the strange figure proclaims, his words echoing all around.
He smiles and snaps his fingers.
You wake up in cold sweats, unable to remember the dream you just had.
Dwarven Trader
While trekking through the hills, a dwarven trader spots you and approaches.
'Got any rare items for trade, eh? I'm lookin' for , if you can believe? Can pay you well...'
 Exchange a treasure for a different one.
 You smile. 'Maybe next time, my good man.' The dwarf mutters obscenities to himself as he leaves.
Fight Club
As you make your way through the alleys of a town, you hear the roar of a frenzied crowd. Intrigued, you follow the sound to a stable where a group of men cheer as two topless fighters punch each other into bloodied pulps.
'What's this-' you got o ask, before the ringmaster cuts you off.
'-No questions!'
You shrug, 'Fair enough', and stick around the watch the next bout.
As the previous loser's limp body is dragged away, the ringmaster shouts: 'Who's it gonna be!? The Champion Koszoka? Or the brave challenger? Place your bets!'
 30% chance to upgrade a unit by 10.
 70% chance to upgrade a unit by 3.
If successful: It seems you have a keen eye for fighting prowess. You collect your winnings, bid the ringmaster a good day, and leave.
If unsuccessful: You huff and slap a wooden beam. 'Damn it!' Although you'd like a chance to win your money back, your better judgement compels you to walk away.
The Forge
In the mountains, you stop by a secluded forge owned by a dwarf. Although he's not fond of chit-chat, or company in general, he appreciates the occasional business and offers you his services, for the right price...
 Upgrade a unit by 2. Lose 4 energy. You agree on a fair enough price and toss a pouch of coins his way. You watch with delight as the dwarf works, appreciating the sight of a master in his element. 'Will that be all?' the dwarf asks.
 Upgrade a unit by 2. Lose 6* energy.
 Satisfied with the work, you thank the dwarf and leave him to his solitude.
 - (TBA)
*Every further enhancement costs 2 more energy than the last i.e. 4, 6, 8, 12...
Hidden Cache
On a particularly stormy day, you take shelter in a cave near a mountaintop. To your surprise, it seems the cave is used to store cargo, as there are barrels and crates nearly organised all around -- possibly stolen.
Curious, you browse the wares, and one item in particular grabs your attention...
 - (TBA)
 Gain Prism Pendant. 'Finders keepers,' you say to yourself, smiling. Then you take the treasure-- IT'S A TRAP! A spiked log swings down from the ceiling and hurtles towards you...
 Lose 25 energy.
 Gain 2 Wound cards. Your body reacts before your mind. Instinctively, you pivot and drop to the ground, but not fast enough. The tips of the spikes slice across your back as the log careens past. You grunt. It wasn't fatal, but these wounds will hurt for a while.
Merchant in Need
Taking a shortcut from the main roadway, you come across a merchant who, unfortunately for him, had the same idea.
With his heavy cart now stuck in a bog, he waves his arms and hollers, pleading for help.
Help 
You use your magic to hoist the cart from the watery much and place it safely on solid ground. The merchant jumps with joyous vigour, showering you with praise. As gratitude for your assistance, he gives you the most valuable item he possesses.
Gain Magnifying Spyglass.
The merchant thanks you one last time, then heads back towards the main roadway.
Leave - (TBA)
Ransacked Caravan
You stumble upon the aftermath of a skirmish, or some sort of ambush-gone-wrong: broken wagons, dead bodies, and ruined cargo litter the ground. It might be worth investigating the scene.
 Gain . As you search the wreckage, you find something quite valuable hidden under a dead merchant's body. It appears he wanted to hide it from his attackers.
Tavern
After a long day you decide to rest at a roadside inn. The interior glows with the welcoming warmth of the hearth and the friendly chatter of tipsy travellers. As you enter, the patrons turn towards you and, upon seeing your illustrious garb, fall quiet--it's not often that a mage walks into a tavern, after all.
 Gain 20 energy.
 Upgrade a unit by 2. You've spent a long time on the road and could do with a dose of camaraderie. Much to the joy of all, you buy a round and drink with the patrons. When it comes time to call it a night, your new friends beckon you to stay and have another drink. 'Just one more,' they please, 'what harm's one more?'
 Upgrade a unit by 2. 50% chance of hangover. You agree--one more has never hurt anyone-- and stay for another drink. And another, and another, until you're spilling tankards, singing merry songs, and tripping over furniture. When you wake the next morning, your head pounds the inside of your skull like a hundred miniature battering rams. You groan. Mistakes were made... You gain a wound.
Trickster
A sylvan, sitting on a stone near the road, asks if you'd like to play a game.
Leave: You have no time for silly games. 'Not today, sylvan. Not today.'
Play: The sylvan smiles. 'Excellent!'
All it takes is a small hole for the largest ship to sink. What am I?
Terror of the Seas
Griffin
Queen of the Night
As for forktails, bait them thusly: pound a stake in the soil, bind a goat to it, then hide ye in nearto shrubbery posthaste. What am I?
Barbegazi
Aretuza Student
Forktail
Griffins like to toy with their prey. Eat 'em alive, piece by piece. What am I?
Griffin
Saesenthessis
Syanna
A fondness for shiny trinkets is not a trait unique to magpies. What am I?
Queen Adalia
Ard Feainn Crossborman
Gael
You can draw anything you like, my dear dwarves. But you can't build it, mark my words. What am I?
Dwarven Chariot
Prince Anséis
Morkvarg
Novigrad - where the impossible becomes possible. A professional torturer turned reverend, for instance. What am I?
Alpha Werewold
Donar an Hindar
Nathaniel Pastodi
Don't stare in his eye, he hates that... What am I?
Germain Piquant
Philippa: Blind Fury
Cyclops
Your Majesty... The princess has been touched by the curse o' the Black Sun. There's no hope, i'm afraid... What am I?
Syanna
Stregobor
King Belohun
Limited to only one region of the Continent, scholars consider them critically endangered. Gods be praised... What am I?
Brokvar Archer
Mantlet
Protofleder
It's kind of like a fiend, but bald and with a nose that hangs to the ground. What? No, you're making things up! What am I?
War Elephant
Dwarven Chariot
Endrega Eggs
Unstable Place of Power
Reign Ors, Vosryhi-Conspleint; King White; Without the Prism Pendant in your deck
(TBA)
With the Prism Pendant in your deck
You find an unstable Place of Power. Considering its condition, drawing energy from it could be dangerous... but perhaps you could use the Prism Pendant as a vessel...
You draw energy from the Place of Power and store it in the pendant.