Hym
Hym is a type of specter that appears in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt.
It's particularly formidable in that it doesn't outright attack its target but instead feeds on the target's guilt, tormenting them to the point the person goes completely mad or they commit suicide.
According to scholars who wrote Behind the Great Veil, hyms are one of the most dangerous demons and cannot be exorcised traditionally. They inhabit several spheres, including the real world and Gaunter O'Dimm's dark plane.
Quick Answers
What is the unique method by which the Hym in Witcher 3 torments its victims?
						The Hym, a specter in Witcher 3, torments victims by amplifying their guilt. It doesn't physically assault, but mentally manipulates them into madness or suicide. The torment continues until the victim loses their sanity or life. A silver sword with specter oil, as per Witcher's exorcism method, can combat a Hym.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
Why are Hym considered one of the most dangerous demons in The Witcher 3?
						In The Witcher 3, Hym is a specter deemed as one of the deadliest demons. It torments its victims by feeding on their guilt and fear, driving them to madness or suicide. Traditional exorcism methods are ineffective against Hym, which can exist in various spheres, such as the real world and Gaunter O'Dimm's dark plane. It remains invisible to everyone except its chosen victim.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What spheres does the Hym inhabit in The Witcher 3?
						In The Witcher 3, the Hym, a type of specter, inhabits Spikeroog and Gaunter's world. It torments its victims by feeding on their guilt, driving them to madness or suicide. The Hym doesn't physically attack but uses psychological torment. It can briefly be seen on the walls of an old home's basement during the looting of the sword Brokvar.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How does the Hym differ from other specters in The Witcher 3?
						In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, the Hym distinguishes itself from other specters by feeding off a person's guilt rather than haunting locations or individuals due to unresolved matters. This specter torments its victims to madness or suicide without direct attacks. It can be defeated either through direct combat or trickery, and is vulnerable to Moon Dust, Specter oil, and the Igni sign.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
Why can't Hym be exorcised traditionally in The Witcher 3?
						In The Witcher 3, Hym is a unique creature that feeds off a person's guilt, causing self-harm. Traditional exorcism fails as the Hym only departs after driving its host to insanity or suicide. The Witcher's exorcism method involves confronting the Hym with a silver sword and specter oil or deceiving it. The Hym was once expelled when it found no guilt to feed upon.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Hym","mainEntity":}
Bestiary entry
Some men have got good reason to fear their own shadows.– Svargmitt, An Skellig druid
Monsters most commonly claim innocents as their victims: tardy merchants, reckless children and travelers who wander into dark woodlands out of misplaced curiosity. None of the above need fear hyms, however. These wraiths only latch onto particularly despicable individuals who have committed some unspeakable crime. To all others, they remain completely invisible. When they do show themselves to the one they torment, they appear as a tall, shadow-clad, humanoid silhouette with long, sharp claws.
Yet hyms do not sink these claws into their victims. Instead, they sap their strength directly, through inflicting suffering. Speaking in a voice only the victim hears, they drive him to commit acts of violence, aggression and self-harm. A hym will seize on a guilty person's worst fears and weave out of them hideous visions, slowing driving the poor soul into madness.
Those tormented by a hym are incapable of restful sleep, for they are tormented by ever-more-frequent, incredibly-realistic nightmares. At times the victim will become extremely on edge, yelling pleas or threats at invisible phantoms or confessing his guilt out loud in the hope this will end his torment. This act does not, however, bring any relief, for the hym will not leave until it has addled its victim's wits completely or driven him to suicide.
Associated quests
Possession
Whatsoever a Man Soweth... (dependent)
Combat tactics
Once a hym is exposed to possessing a victim, the witcher way of exorcism comes into effect. Moon Dust is unnecessary, but a silver sword coated with specter oil can help finish the fight quicker. Hyms do not move quickly, compared to other specters. Their ethereal claws have great reach, and they can sap the life out of their victims with a mere brush, which makes up for their slowness. Evade or roll past the claws and try to strike the hym before it can react. Be aware that after several strikes, the hym will teleport to another corner of its room.
The battle against Udalryk's hym took place in two phases, one in the main chamber of his old home, and one in the basement. During the first phase, the hym was being damaged whenever possible, using Igni sign to keep him visible while dealing good blows. As hyms often teleport but attack slowly, one should try and get damage in after every attack. When Udalryk began to succumb to the hym's madness, Axii sign had to be immediately used on him to force him to remain calm.
Igni and Yrden sign are both great help at keeping the pressure on the hym. Being lit on fire does not have an extraordinary effect on the hym, but it deals fair damage and helps keep it more visible, especially helpful in the cellar. Yrden slows down the already slow specter, making it easier to strike a blow. When the hym retreats to the cellar, pursue it quickly before it can regenerate. The cellar has candles you must light with Igni to help keep the hym corporeal. Alternatively, you can go into the basement and light them beforehand - they will still be lit when you go down into the basement during the fight. Continue fighting defensively, evading its claws and striking as openings present themselves until the hym succumbs.
Notes
Killing the Hym via the witcher's way will provide loot after its death, trickery will not.
When looking for the sword Brokvar in the basement of the old home, the hym can be spotted on one of the walls for a brief moment when the sword is looted.
Videos
The Witcher 3 Hym Demon Boss Fight (Hard Mode)
Gallery
Hym which already replaced Jarl Udalryk's shadowThe hym possessing Jarl UdalrykUdalryk fights off with his hymGwent concept art