Ida Emean aep Sivney
The time of the White Frost and White Light is nigh.
- Ida Emean, Gwent: The Witcher Card GameAudio version: Media:Ida Emean voice line.ogg
Ida Emean aep Sivney was an elven sorceress from the Blue Mountains and a member of the Lodge of Sorceresses. She was also an Aen Saevherne, who were considered to be powerful, but enigmatic, elven sages.
Little is known of her origins or motives, but she appeared in Dol Blathanna as an associate and advisor of Francesca Findabair. It was on Francesca's insistence that Ida joined the Lodge of Sorceresses, presumably due to her valuable and extensive knowledge of Hen Ichaer, the Elder Blood, and the power associated with it.
She had cinnabar red hair, and wore elven makeup. She was dressed in an airy chiffon dress the color of daffodils. She didn't wear precious metals or stones, preferring instead pearls, coral, and amber.
Biography
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
In 1272, when Geralt and Yennefer discovered that the being, Uma, had some connection to finding Ciri, Yennefer contacted Ida using a megascope. After pronouncing the incantation of the curse, Ida starts to back away, but when pressed she reveals that it was a powerful curse in the forgotten language, One Speech. She gave the two advice on possible solutions to reversing the curse, then warning them that the Elder blood could initiate or stop the White Frost and that Geralt will be the one to influence the events. Later, when Triss tries to contact help from the Lodge to fight the Wild Hunt, Ida outright refused.
End of game canon content.
Associated quest
Ugly Baby
Trivia
 
Ida's face was inspired by and modeled after Agata Trzebuchowska's role in Ida, a well awarded Polish drama film from 2013. Both characters share not only their appearance, red hair, and name, but also personality traits: both heroines are quiet and a bit secretive and belonged to closed organizations.
Notes
The Price of Neutrality premium module, Reim mentions her in a comment to Geralt about mages.
In The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings, she's accused of being part of the conspiracy and sentenced to death with the rest of the Lodge.
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt she has a card that's part of the Scoia'tael deck.
Videos
The Witcher 3- Calling Ida Emean the elven sage
Gallery
Gwent cardCharacter model in The Witcher 3: Wild HuntIda communicating through a megascope in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Ida Emean
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Baptism of Fire