Isengrim Faoiltiarna
'An elf, one of the Scoia'tael. Few have gotten under the humans' skin the way he has. There's a hefty bounty on his head.
- Milva to Geralt, pg. 13 Baptism of Fire (U.K. edition)
Isengrim Faoiltiarna, also known as the Iron Wolf, was an elf and one of the most experienced members of the Scoia'tael. He was a key player in the events at Thanedd Island and later was responsible for the capture of Cahir aep Ceallach, who was wanted under the belief that the knight knowingly captured and produced a false Ciri before trying to hide.
Isengrim took later part in the Battle of Brenna, where he was in charge of the Vrihedd Brigade with the Colonel rank.
Biography

Thanedd coup
On the night of June 30th 1267, Francesca Findabair snuck a boat of Scoia'tael, led by Isengrim, into the hallowed out base of Thanedd Island, in order to support the Nilfgaardian allies. After the queen was released from her bonds in Garstang, she let in Isengrim's men, who contributed to the slaughter that later became known as the Thanedd coup. In response, a hefty bounty was posted across the north for Isengrim, and all elves captured were tortured for information on his commando.
Capturing Cahir
In August 1267, Isengrim captured the unresistant Cahir aep Ceallach and tied him up in a coffin to be delivered by two havekars, Kolda and his boss, to Seventh Mile. However, at the region, when the Nilfgaardian agents came to collect Cahir as due to bring him to Nilfgaard, they turned on the hawkers resulting in the death of everyone and Cahir's escape.
Heading east
After the Second Northern War's end on April 2nd 1268, as a condition of the Peace of Cintra, thirty-two elven commanders that fought under the Nilfgaardian banner were captured and surrendered to the Northern Kingdoms, including Isengrim. The prisoners were later brought to Dillingen for execution. Unlike his mates, Isengrim managed to escape and fled to the foot of the Elskerdeg Pass, where he met with Sigismund Dijkstra and Boreas Mun, both fugitives for their own reasons. The three of them formed an unlikely traveling party, heading east, towards Zerrikania or even Haakland, presumably leaving the territories of the Nilfgaardian Empire and the Northern Kingdoms for good.
Trivia
"Faoiltiarna" is broken Irish for "Wolf Lord", while "Isegrimm" (without the n) is a German poetic word for "Wolf".
Notes
The physical description of Iorveth in The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings' journal entry is a direct quote of the physical description of Isengrim in Baptism of Fire.
He was most recognizable for a disfiguring scar across his face.
Gallery
Gwent: The Witcher Card Game card artThe Witcher 3: Wild Hunt gwent card artIn Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Isengrim
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Isengrim: Outlaw
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Baptism of Fire
↑ 2.0 2.1 The Lady of the Lake
↑ Time of Contempt