Ithlinne's Prophecy
Ithlinne's prophecy, also known as Aen Ithlinnespeath, is a prediction made by the elven prophetess Ithlinne, of a global cooling that will bring about the end of the world.
By the 15th or 16th century, Ithlinne's prophecy was first observed in the progress of becoming reality: the harbours of Kovir and Poviss were no longer ice-free in winter and a 100 years earlier, pumpkins and sunflowers could be cultivated in Talgar and Caingorn. According to sorceress Nimue, it would be another 3,000 years until civilization was buried by glaciers.
Aen Ithlinnespeath, Ithlinne Aegli aep Aevenien's prophecy
Verily I say unto you, the era of the sword and axe is nigh, the era of the wolf's blizzard. The Time of the White Chill and the White Light is nigh, the Time of Madness and the Time of Contempt: Tedd Deireádh, the Time of End. The world will die amidst frost and be reborn with the new sun. It will be reborn of Elder Blood, of Hen Ichaer, of the seed that has been sown. A seed which will not sprout but burst into flame.
Ess'tuath esse! Thus it shall be! Watch for the signs! What signs these shall be, I say unto you: first the earth will flow with the blood of Aen Seidhe, the Blood of Elves...pg. 1, Blood of Elves (UK edition)
May Ye All Wail, for the Destroyer of Nations is upon us. Your lands shall they trample and divide with rope. Your cities razed shall be, their dwellers expelled. The bat, owl and raven your homes shall infest, and the serpent will therein make its nest...pg. 199 Time of Contempt (UK edition)
The Witcher

Glossary entry
Ithlinne's Prophecy
"An old elven prophecy about the end of the world: "The Wolf's Blizzard approaches, the time of the sword and axe. The Time of the White Frost and White Light, the Time of Madness and Disdain, Tedd Deireadh, the Final Age. The world will perish amidst ice and be reborn with the new sun. Reborn of the Elder Blood, of Hen Ichaer, of a planted seed. A seed that will not sprout but burst into flames!"
Ithlinne, an elven prophetess, is famous for her foretelling of the end of the world. According to her prophecy, the world will be destroyed by an ice age and all humans will die. The only survivors will be elves, saved by an offspring of the Elder Blood, known also as the Swallow. Several signs will herald the destruction of the world, and the cataclysm will begin when elven blood soaks the earth. This will mark the advent of the 'Time of Disdain, the Axe and the Wolf's Blizzard', which can be interpreted as a long war or a return to barbarism."
Source
Ithlinne's Prophecy
↑ Blood of Elves
↑ The Lady of the Lake