Kaedwen
Kaedwen (from Elder Speech Caed Gwen translated as White Forest; Scholar: Regnum Caedvenie) is the largest of the Northern Kingdoms (and the second largest country in the Continent, next to Nilfgaard). Its main cities are its capital, Ard Carraigh, and the city of Ban Ard, famous for its sorcery school. It is also known for its cold and unforgiving climate, along with the many forests within its borders.
King Henselt frequently quarreled with neighboring Aedirn, mostly over the ownership of the Upper Aedirn in the Pontar Valley which once belonged to the Kaedwenians. Kaedwen also shares borders with the kingdoms of Redania and Caingorn; and portions of the Dragon Mountains, the Kestrel Mountains and the Blue Mountains run through the kingdom. The witchers' fortress of Kaer Morhen is located amidst the peaks of the Blue Mountains, and further south lies the land of the Free Elves, an enclave established by elves seeking refuge from centuries of warring with humans.
In the far future, the weather changed enough that northern regions, like Talgar, Caingorn, and Kaedwen, are no longer suitable to grow certain types of produce due to the colder climate. In particular, Kaedwen no longer has the capability to grow grapevines and thus no longer has a wine industry.
History

Dagread's reign
In 1130, King Dagread moved the capital from the city of Ban Ard to Ard Carraigh, closer to the Kingdom's center. The former capital city was granted to the magical academy.
Northern Wars
During the reign of King Henselt, during the First Northern War in 1263, the Kaedwenian Army marched south to face the invading Nilfgaardian Army. While successful, many soldiers were lost in battle, and concurrently Kaedwen was left partially undefended to the newly established Scoia'tael, who constantly attacked Kaedwenian forts and regiments on the road, such as Beeches.
In early 1267, after the northern rulers meeting at Hagge, Henselt formed an offensive against the warring Scoia'tael, resulting in pogroms against nonhumans becoming commonplace around the kingdom.
In July, after the beginning of the Second Northern War and fall of Aedirn, Henselt negotiated a peace treaty with Nilfgaard: the lands of Aedirn were to be split between two, the natural division line being the Dyfne river. Kaedwenian troops marched to occupy the northern region known as Upper Aedirn, where on the river, Margrave Mansfeld shook hands with Menno Coehoorn, commander-in-chief of the Nilfgaardian army.
National Emblems

Coats of Arms
From time immemorial, the coat of arms of Kaedwen has been the black unicorn on gold. The legend has it that when Viduka was wandering through the country he saw the unicorn which led him to the unusual rock where he would later found his capital.
Notable Kaedwenians
For the main article on Kaedwenian kings, see Dynasty of the Unicorn.
Royalty
Aideen
Benda
Caitlyn
Dagread
Deirdre
Elen
Henselt
Radowit II
Viduka
Others
Bode
Bras of Ban Ard
Burton
Digod
Edwin Leistham
Gavrilo
Horst Yensen
Hrafhir
Igor de Sade
Kraska
Lasota
Manfred
Mansfeld
Mavrick
Myron
Odrin
Roderick of Daevon
Sabrina Glevissig
Stahler
Sven
Vandergrift
Vilfrid Wenck
Vinson Traut
Wendy
Zyvik
For a complete list of known Kaedwenians, see Category:Kaedwenians.
Armed forces
Kaedwenian Army
Dun Banner
Notable locations

Cities and Keeps
Ard Carraigh
Ban Ard
Ban Gleán
Ban Fearg
Ban Fillim
Beeches
Daevon
Fort Leyda
Heihgard
Lod
Kaer Morhen
Vattweir
Yarsbor
Regions and Landmarks

Marches
Kaedwen's core areas were surrounded by marches, or marks, named such after signs called marks meant to denote the Kingdom's expanding borders. Marches were ruled by Margraves, either hereditary or appointed by the King.
Notable marches:
Lower March (Lormark)
Upper March (Upmark?)
Western March (Westmark?)
Lakeland March (?)
Others
Barefield (formerly)
the Buina
the Brista
Caingorn (formerly)
Gwenllech
Hertch
Kaer Morhen valley
the Lixela
Malleore (formerly)
Kaedwen Trail
Out-of-the-way kingdom (probably)
Pontar
Vattweir
Vspaden or Vespaden
The Witcher
The Prologue is set in the grounds of Kaer Morhen, which is located in the northern kingdom of Kaedwen. Additionally, one of the types of beer available to Geralt throughout the game is Kaedwenian Stout.
The Price of Neutrality premium module
This premium module for the game is set in the surroundings of Kaer Morhen, which is located in the northern kingdom of Kaedwen.
Journal entry
The largest of the Northern Kingdoms with its capital at Ard Carraigh, Kaedwen has a cold and unforgiving climate. Its ruler, Henselt, quarrels frequently with the monarch of neighboring Aedirn. Kaedwen also shares borders with the kingdoms of Redania and Caingorn and with the duchies of Vspaden and Creyden. Portions of the Fiery Mountains, the Kestrel Mountains and the Blue Mountains run through the kingdom. The witcher's fortress of Kaer Morhen is located amidst the peaks of the latter range. Further south lies the land of the Free Elves, an enclave established by elves seeking refuge from centuries of warring with humans. Kaedwen's main cities are its capital and the city of Ban Ard, famous for its sorcery school.
The above journal entry states that, Kaedwen borders the duchy of "Vspaden", which is an error based on a fan-made map from Andrzej Sapkowski Zone, even though CD PROJEKT RED created a more correct map of their own for the game, which does not include this error. The fan-made map includes the duchy based on a (misspelled) reference to Yspaden in "The Lesser Evil". According to Andrzej Sapkowski's own notes, which were released after the map was created, Yspaden is a city in Redania.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
While the kingdom of Kaedwen does not itself feature in the game, its king, Henselt and a Kaedweni taskforce of 5,200 men do. They attempt to seize the Pontar Valley through negotiated terms at first, but are met with resistance from Prince Stennis and the Blood Curse of Sabrina Glevissig. Henselt is forced to take it through military action, but this is met with fierce resistance from Saskia and the Vergen militia. The outcome of the battle and fate of King Henselt can be influenced by the Geralt's actions. Kaedwen may end up controlliing both strategic lynchpins of the Valley, should Geralt allow Kaedwen to seize both Flotsam and Vergen.
Journal entry
 
Kaedwen
The formidable ranges of the Blue, Kestrel and Fiery mountains define the eastern and western boundaries of the densely forested, cold and harsh domain of Kaedwen, whose coat of arms is a black unicorn rearing on a golden field. The realm's capital at Ard Carraigh was the seat of power of King Henselt, a man known for having a violent temper and pursuing radical policies towards nonhumans. The latter could be attributed to the fact that Scoia'tael units consistently caused great injury to the wooded land and its inhabitants, launching many brutal guerilla attacks. The local human populace responded with massacres perpetrated on the assimilated elves and dwarves inhabiting the country's cities. And so hatred burned on and blood bred blood. Those who called for peace were accused of treason and often died at the hands of their kinfolk. Furthermore, Kaedwen was involved in an age-old feud with neighboring Aedirn over the territory of Lormark, and that conflict cast a pall over relations between the two countries. As you will clearly see, its echoes rang out in this story as well.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
During a conversation with Imperial Ambassador var Attre in Vizima, Geralt is informed that while Nilfgaard's army settled in for the winter of 1271/2, Redania's forces crossed the Kestrel Mountains and conquered Kaedwen. If Henselt survived the events of Assassins of Kings, he was killed on the front lines. Redania absorbed Kaedwen's military, thereby presenting Nilfgaard with a much larger, united front to face during their invasion of the north.
Footnotes
↑ it's unclear if there was only one Benda, or the name was used by several Kaedweni monarchs
↑ Polish: Górna Marchia; no official translation yet
↑ Polish: Zachodnia Marchia; no official translation yet
↑ Polish: Pojezierna Marchia; no official translation yet
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Rozdroże kruków
↑ The Tower of the Swallow
↑ The Lady of the Lake
↑ 4.0 4.1 Blood of Elves
↑ Time of Contempt
↑ Stanislav Komárek
↑ The Witcher Role-Playing Game
↑ 8.0 8.1 Zdrada
↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 9.4 Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
↑ 2nd Edition of Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
↑ The Price of Neutrality