Kaer Morhen valley
Kaer Morhen valley is an abandoned area of the mountainous region known as Hertch in northeastern Kaedwen, where the prehistoric sea was located many millennia ago.
Currently, the only known "inhabited" structure in the valley is the limestone keep of Kaer Morhen, the home of the witcher's School of the Wolf, and surrounding places. The Gwenllech river flows through the valley.
The Witcher
Kaer Morhen valley is the area immediately adjacent to and surrounding the fortress of Kaer Morhen. It is here that the campsite of the unexpected visitors to Kaer Morhen is situated in The Price of Neutrality premium module. The valley itself is divided by a fast flowing river which can only be crossed at either of the two fords. The area is also infested with archespores, wolves, basilisks, giant centipedes and wyverns.
The area also boasts:
two circles of elements (one for Aard and one for Igni)
three places of power
an old mine
The entrance near Kaer Morhen fortress leads to the kikimore hatchery. It is where Eskel is first found.
The more southerly entrance leads to a basilisk den.
Herbs
Balisse, (spelled Balissa)
Bryonia
Celandine
Ginatia
Wolf's aloe, actually growing wild, as well as in pots
One can also "see" Beggartick outside, but it can not be picked. There is some that is "pickable" inside Sabrina's tent, but Geralt does not have the journal entry, so trying to pick it is useless.
There are also Berbercane trees here and there, but those, like the beggarticks, are just landscaping, too.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
The valley of Kaer Morhen is a major region in the third and possibly final game of Geralt's adventures. The geography of the area, while more fully fleshed-out, is faithful to the original game, including the interior of the keep, which has preserved the same floorplan.
Map description
Kaer Morhen, meaning "Keep of the Sea of Yore," is home to a school of witchers. Years ago the keep was destroyed and its inhabitants murdered during a massive pogrom. Currently only a handful of witchers winter here before setting out again on the Path.
Locations
Kaer Morhen
Bastion
Iron Mine
Lakeside Hut
Ruined Watchtower
Old signal tower
Associated quests
The Bastion
The Battle of Kaer Morhen
Berengar's Blade
Blood on the Battlefield
Disturbance
The Final Trial
Gwent: Old Pals
Monster Slayer
No Place Like Home
Greenhouse Effect
Scavenger Hunt: Wolf School Gear
To Bait a Forktail...
Ugly Baby
Va Fail, Elaine
The Witchers' Forge
Gallery
Satellite view in The Witcher 3: Wild HuntMap of Kaer Morhen valleyKaer Morhen valley, seen from the fortressthe valley