Keira Metz
Sub-Pages:
Main
Netflix seriesStore
"Do you really wish to know?" — Spoilers from the books and/or adaptations to follow!
There are times when a woman should simply not explain her decision. That goes doubly for sorceresses.
- Keira Metz in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
Keira Metz of Carreras was a sorceress and former advisor to King Foltest of Temeria, a role that had also been held by Triss Merigold and Fercart.

Keira was born in the city of Carreras, although little is known about her early life. From a young age, Keira studied at the Academy of Aretuza where she was trained in the arts of magic and eventually became a sorceress.
Thanedd banquet
In early 1267, Keira was serving as King Foltest's advisor when she and other mages in the North learned some of their fellow mages were planning to betray the Brotherhood of Sorcerers for Nilfgaard. Armed with this information, a conclave was called on Thanedd Island under the pretense of figuring out what they should do in regards to their positions as advisors to various rulers. In reality, Keira along with several others, including Philippa Eilhart and Sabrina Glevissig, planned a coup of their own to try and prevent the Nilfgaard supporters from putting their coup into play first.
On June 30th, she attended the banquet the night before the conclave and met Geralt, who'd been brought along by Yennefer, and the two conversed for a bit, with the witcher joking that he had created the caviar illusion and her noting she didn't want to drink as she planned "to get pregnant tonight" before Marti Södergren butted in and the trio further discussed trivial matters before Keira walked off to talk with other mages there.
Thanedd Coup
However, Keira's real reason for not wanting to drink that night was to prevent herself from falling asleep. While everyone else headed off to bed, the Northern supporters planned to stay awake to arrest the traitors. As dawn approached, they made their move and Keira, with assistance from Sigismund Dijkstra and some of his Redanian soldiers, began to apprehend the traitors. As they were in the process of capturing Artaud Terranova, Geralt stumbled upon them but the soldiers held him off while Terranova was handcuffed, but not before the mage insulted Keira who, in turn, punched him with brass knuckles straight to the face. On seeing Geralt, she demanded that they guard him and hurried off before returning with Detmold, wondering what to do about the witcher. After deciding Philippa could decide, the two mages then hurried off to continue the arrests. A short time later, Keira and Radcliffe apprehended Francesca Findabair and Fercart and brought them to where the rest of the supporters were waiting before moving them to Garstang.
However, the plan soon fell apart and a battle erupted between the two sides in Garstang. Keira had been overpowered by them and Terranova proceeded to throw her out of a window but Geralt, who'd been on his way into the tower to find Yennefer, happened to be just below and she instead landed on the witcher. Suffering from a broken leg and ribs, Keira had Geralt carry her so she could show him the way in, meanwhile explaining all that had transpired right before the fight broke out. Keira managed to survive despite her wounds but, having been exiled by her king, took refuge in Montecalvo, Philippa's castle, along with Triss Merigold, Margarita Laux-Antille, and another unnamed mage, where they attempted to help Queen Hedwig regain control of Redania.
Joining the Lodge
On August 5th, she joined Philippa's plans to create a new mage organization, the Lodge of Sorceresses, attending both the first and second meeting on the 19th of that month. However, like many of the other sorceresses in attendance, she wrongly believed Yennefer had sided with Nilfgaard during the coup and, along with Sabrina, made occasional scathing remarks towards the black-haired sorceress.
As January 1268 rolled around, another member of the Lodge, Fringilla Vigo, had seduced Geralt when his travels took him into Toussaint, hoping to keep him there until Spring. However, Geralt learned where Vilgefortz was and proceeded to make haste, but not before Fringilla got him to tell her the location and, in turn, informed the Lodge. Believing they had the upper hand, Keira and Sabrina were sent to ambush the hideout, Rhys-Rhun Castle, to get Ciri, but when they arrived they realized Geralt was smarter than they realized: he had given Fringilla a false location that'd been abandoned for years.
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
Hiding in Velen
Despite no indication of her involvement in the assassinations of King Foltest of Temeria and King Demavend III of Aedirn, she was condemned to death along with the rest of the Lodge members. As such, she went into hiding near Midcopse in Velen, fearing the wrath of the witch hunters. Here, she hid under the guise of a witch and used her skills to help take care of the locals, who thus protected her and didn't turn her in to the witch hunters. At one point while here, she was approached by an elven mage seeking out a certain type of potion, promising her he'd give her a magical lamp once he finished using it. He then inquired about trying to find an "ashen-haired woman", as they were supposed to meet in Velen. Keira had no knowledge of the woman's whereabouts, so he let her know if she did learn anything, he was hiding in some elven ruins in the area before leaving.
Sometime later, Geralt came by, and she spotted him in the small group of villagers outside her hut. She then retreated inside to a secret, magically-generated chamber where she proceeded to take a bath knowing Geralt would soon find her. Sure enough, Geralt found his way into the secret location where Keira (coyly making little attempt preserve her modesty) asked why he was there. Geralt revealed the reason he sought her out: he heard Ciri had been in the area and quarreled with a witch. While Keira hadn't seen Ciri, she did note about the mysterious elf's earlier visit and the elven ruins. As Keira hadn't yet received the lamp, she decided to go along with Geralt to explore the ruins.
When the two arrived, they ran into members of the Wild Hunt and after navigating through various tunnels and puzzles, faced off against several portals that had been opened to the White Frost. After the two worked to close them off, Nithral blocked their way and Keira helped Geralt fight against the Wild Hunt's member. With Nithral defeated, they explored the final part of the hideout, where it was clear the elf had escaped with the assistance of Keira's potion, but there were no signs of Ciri. However, still needing that lamp, Keira asked for Geralt's assistance in finding it, as it was bound to have been hidden and still in the hideout somewhere.
If Geralt helps Keira find the lamp: With Geralt's help, the two found the magical lamp. While she didn't fill in Geralt on the full details of why she needed it, she did note she'd need his help later with it.
End of game canon content.
Appearance and personality
Keira was short and slim with long, straight, straw-colored hair. She had a small mole above her left breast, and wore expensive clothing, such as a green tulle top and horned agama skin slippers to the Thanedd ball. Around her neck she wore an ankh cross; silver and set with zircon. Fond of luxury, she despised the dirtiness of the outdoors, and was rather eccentric in nature.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt

Journal entry
Geralt first met Keira Metz when she literally dropped on top of him out of nowhere. During the infamous coup on Thanedd Island, Keira was defenestrated and nearly landed right on the witcher's head. The next time Geralt saw her, in the swamps of Velen, was shocking in a different way - the luxury-loving sorceress was the last person he expected to see in such a grim and barren place.
Geralt later learned the reason for this, and Keira's fate gave him ample fodder for contemplating the cruel whimsies of the wheel of fortune. Once the esteemed advisor to the now late King Foltest, she had been chased out of Temeria when she lost that ruler's trust. Later she joined the Lodge of Sorceresses, which earned her the hatred of Redania's king and Nilfgaard's emperor alike. Because of this, she had gone deep undercover, posing as a cunning woman, a village witch of sorts, deep in the Velen boondocks. It was not at all difficult to tell that she despised every minute of this.
Keira then asked Geralt for another favor: lifting the curse from the tower of Fyke Isle. Curses and favors being what Geralt does best, he obliged.
Keira had never stopped longing for the luster of life at a royal court. Thatch-roofed huts could hardly compare to elegant ballrooms and palace gardens. One day she decided to organize an interlude from Velen's grim atmosphere by treating herself to a sumptuous meal.
If Geralt does not sleep with Keira:
Acquiring the refined ingredients proved less trouble than finding an appropriate dinner partner - that is, until Geralt showed up. The witcher gladly accepted the sorceress' invitation for dinner - but showing unusual restraint, turned down her other, decidedly unambiguous propositions.
If Geralt does sleep with Keira:
Acquiring the refined ingredients proved less trouble than finding an appropriate dinner partner - that is, until Geralt showed up. The witcher gladly accepted the sorceress' invitation - and continued saying yes all evening.
Sadly, an evening that started out so nicely ended quite unfortunately for the witcher. Keira put him to sleep with a secretly-cast spell. Clearly, she wanted to hide something from him...
It turned out that Keira had played the witcher like a well-tuned harp, strumming all the right chords to keep him occupied while she stole the mage Alexander's notes from Fyke Isle. She was planning to use the notes as a bargaining chip while making a deal with Radovid. His plague research could be her ticket back to life without lice, ticks and omnipresent filth.
If Geralt refuses to let Keira go to Radovid:
Keira was determined to get her way, but Geralt could not allow her to carry out her plans. Both refused to budge, leading to a fight in which Keira Metz lost her life.
If Geralt convinces Keira to go to Kaer Morhen:
In the end Geralt succeeded in squelching Keira's mad plan to bargain with a man whose favorite negotiating tools were red-hot pincers and burning pyres. Keira changed her destination from Oxenfurt to the decidedly safer confines of Kaer Morhen.
During the battle for Kaer Morhen Keira fought bravely against Eredin's minions and saved Lambert from certain death.
Later it turned out that fighting side by side had forged a bond between Keira and Lambert and they decided to continue developing it after the battle was over. This confirmed my theory that witchers and sorceresses clearly share some mystical mutual attraction.
If Geralt let Keira go parley with Radovid:
Though her planned move was as stupid as it was risky, Keira was deaf to all Geralt's arguments. In the end he had to admit he had no right to stop her, and so Keira left, taking Alexander's notes with her.
Associated quests
Hunting a Witch
Wandering in the Dark
Magic Lamp
An Invitation from Keira Metz
A Towerful of Mice
A Favor for a Friend
For the Advancement of Learning
A Final Kindness (dependent)
The Battle of Kaer Morhen (dependent)
Blood on the Battlefield (dependent)
Trivia
If Geralt let Keira go to Radovid, her body can be recovered later with Triss. After taking it down from a stake, Triss will sit for a moment with her dead friend's body in a similar position to Michangelo's famous sculpture, Pietà, in which the Virgin Mary holds Jesus' body after it was taken down from the cross.
Notes
In The Witcher, it's speculated that it's either Philippa or Keira that spoke to Triss Merigold through a mirror while Geralt was unconscious.
She's mentioned several times in The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings though she never actually makes an appearance. Despite not seeing any indication of her taking part in the assassinations, due to her association with the Lodge of Sorceresses, she's condemned to death with the other members of the Lodge.
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, there is a gwent card depicting her in the Northern Realms deck.
Bugs
Prior to Patch 4.0, provided that she was present and survived The Battle of Kaer Morhen, Keira would permanently remain at the funeral pyre there. She would have the same dialogue options available as while she was in hiding and be available as a merchant. Since patch 4.0, she can no longer be found there, but her alchemist icon still appears on the map due to a different bug affecting all merchants.
The history of (non-quest) dialogue options used with her resets after every quest, appearing as if you never talked to her about anything.
Videos
The Witcher 3 Wild Hunt - Conclusion 3 - Fate of Keira Metz - A New FriendThe Witcher 3 Wild Hunt - Conclusion 3 - Fate of Keira Metz - A Savage EndThe Witcher 3 - Keira Metz Romance and Sex (Romance and Sex Scene)
Gallery
Keira executed by RadovidKeira and Lambert traveling togetherKeira's gwent card artGwent standalone card artIn Netflix's The Witcher