Kreve
Kreve is one of many deities worshipped by the inhabitants of the Northern Realms. In Barefield was one of the larger temples of Kreve. Kreve priests are known for their passion for creating mission and proselytizing, and the aversion of many post conjunction phenomena (monsters, magic).
On the other hand, they are able to cooperate with other religious congregations - with the Cult of Melitele and the Cult of the Eternal Fire. Besides, we do not know too much about the deity - do not even know if it was a feminine or masculine deity.
Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
Kreve is a kind of sky father or the thunder god of the Nordling pantheon. An expansive god, associated with such attributes as decisive action, energy, power, spontaneity, resourcefulness, expansion (in any meaning) and defense of ownership. His symbol is the thunderbolt. Most popular among soldiers, knights, monarchs, merchants and risk-takers.
The basic commandment of Kreve's followers is the fight against evil, understood both internally, as challenging oneself to fight against one's own weaknesses, and outwardly, when "evil" means anything that threatens the people's life, health, soul and property. This is the reason why Kreve's clergy are talented exorcists, but also opponents of mages and exotic, pagan or sectarian cults like Coram Agh Tera or Lilith.
They also are often prejudiced in relation to unassimilated non-humans. Kreve's military arm, Order of the White Rose founded by Hugues de Napeys, actively contributed to the extermination of Vrans and the suppression of Aelirenn's rebellion.
The Cult of Kreve is strongly associated with the cult of the Eternal Fire. Priests of Kreve often argue and carry out disputes with priestesses of Melitele but they can cooperate on important issues. Kreve's clerics are the most vehement opponents of the worshippers of Lionhead Spider.
Important worshipers
Priests:
Krepp
Olcan
Grand Masters:
Hugues de Napeys
Rudolf Valaris
Trivia
The word "kreve" in Norwegian means "claim" or "charge".
In Baltic mythology, it's believed kriwe was the chief priest.
Notes
Kreve as presented in Gra Wyobraźni has references to several sky gods worshipped in mythologies, like the Greek Zeus, the Slavic Perun or the Norse Thor.
It is unclear if the title of the "Forefather" mentioned in The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings belongs to Kreve.
References
↑ Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
↑ The Witcher Role-Playing Game