Leo Bonhart
Sub-Pages:
Main
Netflix seriesQuotes
"Do you really wish to know?" — Spoilers from the books and/or adaptations to follow!
I defy witchcraft and sorcerers, destiny, prophecies, the fate of the world, I defy the Elder and Younger Blood. What do all these predictions and spells mean to me? What do I gain from them? Nothing!
- Bonhart to Ciri before their final fight, The Lady of the Lake (U.S. edition)
Leo Bonhart (d. 1268) was a bounty hunter and previously a professional soldier from Ebbing. Known for his professionalism and expense to hire, he found pleasure in watching brutal scenes and inflicting pain on others. He was described as very tall but ghoulishly thin, with a prodigious grey moustache. He was said to have cold, expressionless eyes which were often likened to fish.
He possessed three witcher medallions, depicting the heads of a wolf (School of the Wolf), a cat (School of the Cat) and a griffin (School of the Griffin), and claimed to have killed their previous owners. A claim which was not necessarily in doubt, given his prowess with a sword.
Quick Answers
What profession did Leo Bonhart have before becoming a bounty hunter?
						Leo Bonhart, before his career as a bounty hunter, served as a professional soldier hailing from Ebbing. He was recognized for his professionalism, and his services were costly. His appearance was marked by his towering height, thin physique, grey moustache, and cold, fish-like eyes. Additionally, he owned three witcher medallions.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What physical characteristics make Leo Bonhart distinctive?
						Leo Bonhart, a former professional soldier turned bounty hunter, is distinguished by his tall, thin physique and large grey moustache. His eyes, cold and devoid of expression, are often compared to a fish's gaze. He also carries three witcher medallions as part of his persona.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What significance do the three witcher medallions Leo Bonhart possesses have?
						Leo Bonhart's three witcher medallions, portraying a wolf, a cat, and a griffin, signify the witcher schools of their former owners. Bonhart's possession of these medallions underscores his combat prowess, as he alleges to have slain their previous witcher owners, known for their resilience. Post Bonhart's demise, the cat medallion was claimed by Ciri, who also gifted the wolf medallion to Geralt.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What is the meaning behind the wolf and cat on Leo Bonhart's witcher medallions?
						Bounty hunter Leo Bonhart held three witcher medallions, each symbolizing a different witcher school: wolf, cat, and griffin. These medallions were trophies, evidencing his martial skill, as he alleged to have slain their prior witcher owners. Each medallion's form signifies the school of its original owner. Post Bonhart's demise, Ciri took the cat medallion, passed the wolf one to Geralt, while the griffin medallion's fate is unclear.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Leo Bonhart","mainEntity":}
Biography
Bonhart was hired by Stefan Skellen to kill Ciri and by Baron of Casadei to capture her alive. Bonhart killed the Rats band to which Ciri belonged and cut off their heads after their deaths. He neither killed Ciri, nor brought her to Baron of Casadei, therefore fulfilling neither of his contracts. He imprisoned her for some time, beating her and drugging her with fisstech. After some time he also bought Ciri her infamous sword Zireael and forced her to kill in the arena at Claremont, which belonged to his cousin Houvenaghel.
Ciri escaped Bonhart with the help of Neratin Ceka while they were in the village of Unicorn. Bonhart had travelled there to meet with Skellen and Rience. Bonhart then killed Neratin Ceka while Skellen seriously wounded Ciri with an orion as she escaped with her horse, Kelpie. Later, Ciri hid and healed at the hermitage of Vysogota of Corvo in the Pereplut swamp.
Together with Skellen and Rience, Bonhart tried to hunt her down on Vilgefortz's order. Eventually, she escaped to Tor Zireael.
At Stygga Castle, Bonhart killed Cahir, and then he himself died at the sword of Ciri.
Notes
Although he was one of the cruelest persons on the continent, having no qualms with brutally mutilating corpses, Bonhart once confessed to his cousin Houvenaghel that he was disgusted by the sight of manure and worms.
He still seemed to have a firm moral compass of his own. He regarded what his cousin called "entrepreneurship" as nothing more than elaborate theft, but he also had no qualms participating in and profiting from Houvenaghel's schemes.
Furthermore, Bonhart seemed disgusted by the Marquise de Nementh-Uyvar. Whether this was due to her and her husband's rampant and sadistic pedophilia or the Marquise's description of her husband's genital warts is not entirely clear.
Trivia
In one of the interviews Andrzej Sapkowski confessed that the surname "Bonhart" originally belonged to one of the English clients of his company.
In The Witcher, Bonhart is mentioned by Jean-Pierre when you first meet him in the swamp. According to Jean-Pierre, "Old Leo" was a witcher slayer and is known as a legend, witchers and mages were no match for him.
Gallery
Showing Mistle's body to CiriBefore Windsor ImbraLeo Bonhart and YenneferCiri kills Leo
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Leo Bonhart