Loc Muinne
Loc Muinne was a former city built upon its namesake lake along the Pontar river, amidst the foothills of the Blue Mountains. It belonged to the vrani for ages before they died out, and was rebuilt by the elves, though later the city was sacked by Milan Raupenneck.
History

Ancient history
Originally the site of a vrani settlement, the inhabitants died out either due to climate change or elven expansion after the Age of Migration. There, the Aen Saevherne began to learn and teach the art of magic through generations.
Training of Sources
Following the first landing of humans, Loc Muinne's first encounter with the expansive race was Geoffrey Monck, a Chapter member of the Brotherhood of Sorcerers, who brought several young children identified as Sources to be trained by the Aen Saevherne. Among the children was Agnes of Glanville, who after training, became the first female human sorceress.
Sack of Loc Muinne
Several years after Monck's successful expedition, the forces of Marshall Milan Raupenneck of Tretogor carried out a pogrom in Loc Muinne and Est Haemlet, killing all of the elves, regardless of age or sex. This began an elven-human war, ended with the massacre at Shaerrawedd.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Loc Muinne is a major location where the events of Chapter III take place in The Witcher 2, where a peace summit of the Northern Kingdoms takes place.
Locations
Redanian Quarter
Temerian Quarter
Nilfgaardian Quarter
Camp of the Order of the Flaming Rose
Ruined library
Philippa Eilhart's house
Loc Muinne amphitheatre
Loc Muinne sewers
Crypt of Mages
Journal entry
Not much apart from memories of its former glory remain of Loc Muinne, an elven city situated along the upper reaches of the Pontar, amidst the peaks of the Blue Mountains. It must at one time have been a breathtaking sight, emerging from the morning mists... Today only white ruins mark where it once proudly stood. Centuries ago it was here that the sorcerer Geoffrey Monck brought with him the Sources, a group of human children with a gift for the Power, to hand them over to the elven Sages for training. He managed to overcome the distrust of this Elder Race, and it seemed that a path to coexistence and cooperation between humans and elves had been opened. Yet history took an altogether different course. A few years later Redanian armies massacred Loc Muinne's population, killing all the elves, regardless of gender or age. Thus began a war that ended with Aelirenn's uprising and the massacre at Shaerrawedd, after which most of the surviving elves retreated east into the inaccessible Blue Mountains. This example, dear reader, readily shows that but the slightest bit of effort can summarily spoil even the best of relations.
Note
If Geralt spared the young Aryan La Valette during the Prologue, the two meet again in Loc Muinne, where Aryan has decided to attend the summit of the mages. Aryan also mentions the disappearance of his half-sister Anaïs, saying she has been kidnapped. If Geralt previously sided with Iorveth, he would not know what Aryan is talking about, nor have the opportunity to help the child. Aryan does not make any mention of his younger half-brother, Boussy, who also disappeared (on Roche's path, it's learned he was killed in a plot by the Temerian nobility).
Footnotes
↑ In The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings, Roche and Iorveth offer different interpretations of how the Vrans, the original inhabitants of Loc Muinne, died out. Roche claims that the Aen Seidhe were responsible for massacring the Vrans and subsequently took the city for themselves. Iorveth, meanwhile, says that the Vrans died due to climate change - an extent to which the Pontar flowed all year and flowers still bloomed on the nearby slopes by Velen - before the elves moved in to the vacant city.
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Time of Contempt
↑ The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings