Mahakam
Mahakam is both a vassal state and mountain range between the kingdoms of Temeria, Aedirn, Lyria and Rivia, and Sodden and is inhabited by dwarves, gnomes, halflings, werebbubbs and some vrans.
It is the biggest known exporter of iron and steel to the Northern Kingdoms and Nilfgaard, and many mines, foundries, forges, and ironworks are located there. Mahakam iron is famous for its quality and is considered to be the best in the world. Aside from its iron, Mahakam is famous for its weapons, especially gwyhyrs forged using advanced gnomish technology.
Although the kings of Temeria are titular lords of Mahakam, in practice its dwarves and gnomes keep the region largely autonomous as any foreign intervention would cause them to stop the supply shipments and flood the mines. The real power lies in the hands of local clans governed by a chosen elder who rules absolutely for life. During the reign of King Foltest, the position was held by Brouver Hoog.
Apart from the rich mines and breathtaking strongholds, the enclave is famous for its Ale Festival, which takes place every twenty-five years and attracts thousands of participants from every part of the world. This is the only occasion where the gates of Mahakam are opened to everyone. When the festival is ended, no one can enter the enclave, except with the permission of the Elder-in-Chief, who usually gift the visitor with the Leaden Ring, which allows him to stay in Mahakam as long as he desires.
Every Mahakaman law, tradition and custom is contained within the Foredwarves' Codex.
 
National emblems
 
The current coat of arms and flag are based on the original Czech drawing (first one above). The second one is based on the drawing, while the current is based more on the dwarven shields. The stylized third is from The Witcher Battle Arena.
History

First settlers
According to 13th century historians, gnomish outposts in Mahakam were already established when the dwarves arrived in these lands between the 3rd and 2nd millenium BR. The meeting of the two races was described as surprisingly peaceful, supposedly due to similar preferences and habits. After the Conjunction of the Spheres, the third race to join were the halflings.
By the time of the 13th century, Mahakam was overgrown and the mountains full of werebbubbs.
Northern wars
From 1263, following the First Northern War, a great amount of cheap Nilfgaardian goods started to flow through Mahakam into Temeria, greatly affecting the kingdom's economy. King Foltest of Temeria knew he couldn't shut the borders to Mahakam, as it would cause great outcry from the Merchant's Guild, and severely affect trade relations.
Notable residents
Elders
Brouver Hoog
Politicians
Barclay Els
Yarpen Zigrin
Others
Dennis Cranmer
Percival Schuttenbach
Sheldon Skaggs
Yazon Varda
Zoltan Chivay
Locations
Mount Carbon (capital)
Craag Ros
Klamat pass
Mahakam Pass
Davor's Abyss
Mare's Islet
Barrow Hill
Boro's Rump
Black Brook Vale
Langbridge
Twin Peaks
Drunken Bluff
Fornlam
Lonely Rock
Colshtock
Dragon's Eye
Gullbratt
Tall Bridge
The Hag's Pit
Crag Pass
Stoolcap
Trivia
Mahakam is possibly a reference to Myrkheim, which is another name for Niðavellir, the home of the dwarves in Norse mythology.
There is a Mahakam River in Kalimantan, Indonesia.
Notes
In The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings, when Geralt first bumps into Iorveth, he mentions that Vernon Roche was responsible for the pacification of the foothills. At the end of the game, we can see what Zoltan mentioned in the novels: the Nilfgaardian Army passing by without any attack.
In The Witcher, Mahakam is not visited but it is referred to then and again in discussions, books, and journal entries.
In Thronebreaker: The Witcher Tales, Queen Meve visits Mahakam to recruit forces.