Margarita Laux-Antille
Sub-Pages:
Main
Netflix series
An enchantress always takes action. Wrongly or rightly; that is revealed later. But you should act, be brave, seize life by the scruff of the neck. Believe me, little one, you should only regret inactivity, indecisiveness, hesitation. You shouldn't regret actions or decisions, even if they occasionally end in sadness and regret.
- Margarita to Ciri, Time of Contempt (U.S. edition)
Margarita Laux-Antille was a sorceress and a rector of Aretuza. She was also the granddaughter of the famous Ilona Laux-Antille and a founding member of the Lodge of Sorceresses. She had no interest in politics, but she cared deeply for her school and students.
She had a figure outshining statues, fair-haired, tall, and often wore a green dress with a plunging neckline.
Quick Answers
What role did Margarita Laux-Antille play in the Lodge of Sorceresses?
						Margarita Laux-Antille, a sorceress and rector of Aretuza, was a founding member of the Lodge of Sorceresses. Her involvement in the Lodge was driven by her dedication to her school rather than political interest. She co-authored 'Masters of Magic on Curses – Selected Writings' with Tissaia de Vries. Following a conspiracy that resulted in the deaths of King Demavend and Foltest, she was sentenced to death with other Lodge members.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
Who was Margarita Laux-Antille's famous grandmother?
						The renowned grandmother of Margarita Laux-Antille was Ilona Laux-Antille, a significant ancestor in the Laux-Antille lineage.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What was Margarita Laux-Antille's relationship with Lars?
						Margarita Laux-Antille, known as Rita, had a passionate four-year affair with Lars, despite his marital status. As their connection dissolved, Margarita found herself unable to return his affections and ended the relationship. This event may have influenced her decision to skip the Aretuza banquet.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What was Margarita Laux-Antille's position at Aretuza?
						Margarita Laux-Antille, a sorceress, served as the Rectoress of Aretuza. Her dedication was primarily towards the well-being of her school and students, rather than political affairs. Additionally, she was a founding member of the Lodge of Sorceresses.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How is Margarita Laux-Antille typically described in terms of physical appearance?
						Margarita Laux-Antille, often referred to as Rita, is a human female characterized by her blonde hair and green eyes. She holds the position of Rectoress at Aretuza and is a proficient mage. Her beauty is renowned, often compared to the exquisite marble statues of goddesses and nymphs crafted by eminent sculptors. She is affiliated with the Lodge of Sorceresses and was formerly part of the Brotherhood of Sorcerers.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Margarita Laux-Antille","mainEntity":}
Biography

Relationship with Lars
In 1263, Margarita met Lars, and the two quickly developed a passionate relationship. For four years, their connection slowly dissolved and Margarita felt isolated in her thoughts. This, and his ongoing marriage to another woman, led Margarita to finally end things. Later, Tissaia assumed that this humiliating break up may have been the reason why Margarita would chose not to attend the banquet at Aretuza.
Meeting Ciri
On June 30, 1267, after moving the adepts to different sleeping areas due to needing the dormitories for the upcoming Grand Mage's Conclave, several students escaped to the main city to indulge in its delights. Margarita and Tissaia de Vries searched the city, detecting a magical interference nearby. They found Ciri and Fabio Sachs hiding from an angry crowd; and believing she was one of the missing students, Tissaia put her under a paralysis spell while Margarita held off Fabio. They took the young clerk's advice and carried the girl to Giancardi Bank, where Yennefer of Vengerberg proved Ciri's identity, followed by constant apologies from the rectors. They all, save Fabio, went back to The Silver Heron inn, and bathed for several hours, until Ciri decided to flee to Hirundum, followed by Yennefer.
Fall of the Brotherhood
The following day, the whole Brotherhood of Sorcerers met on Thanedd Island but that evening, a large-scale coup took place between the mages allied with the North and those with Nilfgaard, resulting in numerous mages being killed or captured, and spelling the end of the Brotherhood. Despite remaining neutral, with mages now distrusted by many of the rulers, Margarita escaped to Philippa Eilhart's castle, Montecalvo, where she, alongside Keira Metz and Triss Merigold, attempted to assist Queen Hedwig to regain control of Redania.
Formation of the Lodge
On August 5th, the four used a projection spell to begin their first true meeting, mainly around recruitment and their purpose, summoning Assire var Anahid, Sabrina Glevissig, Sheala de Tancarville, and Francesca Findabair. Despite initial disagreements over the events of Thanedd, they agreed to work together to protect the safe practice of magic. Backed by Margarita's evidence of women performing better with magic (based off comparing pupils from Aretuza and Ban Ard), they agreed women would only be allowed to join.
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
Deireadh Prison
On the 6th of Birke, or around March 20, 1272, she was captured by witch hunters during the raids in Novigrad. She kept silent in interrogation, admitting no guilt, and so the torture was increased.
End of game canon content.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Margarita Laux-Antille is mentioned by ambassador Shilard Fitz-Oesterlen, as one of the sorceresses accused to be a member of the conspiracy, which murdered both King Demavend and Foltest. She is also sentenced to death, as were the other members of the Lodge of Sorceresses.
She is also mentioned by Geralt as co-author of the compendium Masters of Magic on Curses – Selected Writings, with Tissaia de Vries.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
After the massacre at Loc Muinne, Margarita, along with the other Northern Lodge sorceresses, went into hiding. However, she still kept in contact with Philippa and the two discussed a plan in hopes to reform the Lodge. However, those plans were put on hold. Fearing witch hunters would inevitably attack Aretuza, Margarita and her students went to Novigrad, hearing Triss was organizing an escape for mages to Kovir. Sadly, she and her students were captured and imprisoned, and her pupils were burned one by one, with Radovid saving Margarita for last. Luckily, she was rescued by Geralt and Yennefer before her execution.
Journal entry
The full list of Margarita Laux-Antille's outstanding mental, spiritual and physical attributes would consume a mountain of parchment. Rita, as her friends called her, once held the position of rector at the Aretuza Academy for Sorceresses on the Isle of Thanedd - the same school attended by her famous ancestor, Ilona Laux-Antille.
Quite unusually for one of her profession, Margarita showed no interest in politics - it was only care for the good of her school that led her to join the Lodge of Sorceresses.
Finally, her beauty deserves mention as well. It was said that not even the marble likenesses of goddesses and nymphs chiseled out by the greatest sculptors could rival this sorceress's figure.
Yet with all her astuteness, Laux-Antille still could not escape the same fate that so many of her fellows met. She had been arrested some time before our tale begins and was staying in the Oxenfurt prison, awaiting a summary and pre-determined trial.
Only Geralt and Yennefer's daring jailbreak saved Margarita from certain execution.
Gallery
Gwent card artIn Netflix's The Witcher
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Margarita of Aretuza
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Time of Contempt
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Baptism of Fire
↑ List of prisoners
↑ The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt