Monsters (mentioned)
Throughout the The Witcher series, various monsters are sometimes mentioned only in passing and thus, without any other viable information to go on. This page is to help list them.
Amarok
Interesting part of the world. Perhaps you'll get a contract for some rare snow beast. A barbegazi, or a vendigo... Or a, uh, an amarok.
- Ciri to Geralt, about Kovir
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, Amarok is named by Ciri as a possible monster Geralt could get a contract on if he moves to Kovir with Triss. While this insinuates they live in that kingdom, it's not clear if they can live in other areas of the continent.
Trivia
In Inuit religion, the amarok is an enormous wolf who haunts its preys alone at night.
Bumbakvetch
According to The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt's bestiary, the bumbakvetche (Polish: bukacz) is a rare cousin of fiends and chorts.
Corgowrath
The corgowrath (Polish: korgorusza) is a type of specter. In Extreme Cosplay, Geralt initially suspects that the "spirit" that have caused a massacre in Doren Alma Estate could have been a corgowrath.
Leucrote
A leucrote is a creature mentioned by Febus Ravenga, who notes that Geralt slayed one in Cizmar. Nothing is known about them besides that they are man-eaters.
Trivia
In Pliny the Elder's bestiary, the leucrotta is the crossbreed between a crocotta (a hyena) and a lion. The leucrotta is a fearsome predator that is able to mimic a man's voice and lure people into a trap to devour them.
Lutin
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, when Geralt met the godling Johnny he originally speculated he could have been a lutin.
Trivia
The lutin is nocturnal house-holding spirit in French folklore, similar to a gnome.
Phooca
According to The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt's bestiary, phooca (Polish: stuchacze) are stronger cousins of the nekkers.
Trivia
The pùca is a shapeshifting fairy of Celtic folklore.
Puffbow
The puffbow (Polish: płanetnik, same as the wind sprite) is a creature mentioned by Geralt in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt's secondary quest Novigrad, Closed City. Not much of this monster is known, except that it can haunts empty houses like wights.
Shishiga
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt's bestiary, Shishiga is mentioned as a monster related to harpies and erynia.
Trivia
In Russian folklore, the shishigas, or leshenka, are female forest spirits that harass and bring bad luck to those who travel in their dominion.
Tsoob
The tsoob (Polish: stubę) is a type of specter. In Extreme Cosplay, Geralt initially suspects that the "spirit" that have caused a massacre in Doren Alma Estate could have been a tsoob.
Gallery
Phoca in Gwent: The Witcher Card Game