Nazair
Nazair is a land located south of the Amell Mountains, adjacent to the Great Sea. It used to be an independent kingdom with political and dynastical ties with the Northern Realms, these ties were however severed by the Nilfgaardian occupation and desolation of the capital city of Assengard.
History

Early history
Before the Nilfgaardian invasion, the royal power was concentrated mostly along the rivers and coastline, while the rocky, hilly interior was inhabited by independent clans of highlanders competing each other for resources. This brigand interior was mostly avoided by merchant trails, while the nobility participated in cultural contacts with the North. The royalty occasionally intermarried with Nordling dynasties, like in case of Princess Becca, wife of king Cerbin of Cintra. Dukes from Nazair controlled even parts of modern-day Toussaint. The most famous of them was probably Adam of Nazair, who - in attempt to irrigate the Nazairian part of his realm - unwillingly created the famed Sansretour Marsh.
Nazair's relation with Cintra was severed by King Corbett of the latter. At least one war took place in the heart of Nazair, when Assengard was sacked by people from as far north as Redania; one of them was Nivellen's grandfather who took a bathtub and blue rose seedlings from the city. Another war took place in 1233 when Nazair invaded Cintra for loot, but was defeated by Queen Calanthe's troops at the Battle of Hochebuz.
Nilfgaardian province
The conquest of Nazair by the Nilfgaardian Empire, though cruel, was described as unusually difficult. The capital city of Assengard was desolated, but many of the interior highlander clans avoided subjugation and still cause troubles for imperial forces.
In 1260s Nazairian nobles and highlanders rebelled against the Empire. Emperor Emhyr var Emreis tasked Major General Markus Braibant to handle the situation. Braibant's forces, including an unit commanded by Dacre Silifant and Ola Harsheim, did indeed calm the rebellion - in a massacre.
During the Second and Third Northern War, the Empire formed its own units out of the Nazairian, consisting of arbalestiers and a large cavalry brigade. Emperor Jan Calveit bore the moniker "Nazairi Avenger".
National emblems
Before the conquest, Nazair's coat of arms was a blue rose against a gold background. This design was also a part of the modern (post-conquest) coat of arms. Royal family members sometimes used a crest depicting a silver ship on the sea. There was also another symbol sometimes used in national heraldry, that of two axes with their blades facing away from each other.
Emblems in the infobox are speculated to be used during the Nilfgaardian period and are based on the official ones.
Vector renditionsStanislav KomárekCD PROJEKT REDThe following illustration has been created by Wiki editors basing on official description and/or depictions.
 
 The following illustration has been created by Stanislav Komárek, Sapkowski's associate and translator.
The following illustration has been used in CD PROJEKT RED's The Witcher franchise.
Geography and climate
Nazair is situated just south of the Amell, reachable from Cintra and Slopes through the Marnadal Stairs. The country is bordered by Metinna in the south and Mag Turga in the east.
Most of the fertile land is along the Great Sea coastline. The interior is said to be rocky and barren, with the exception of Lake Muredach and the Yelena valley.
Society and culture
Throughout most of their history, the Nazairians were split between the nobility and royalty, residing at the coastline and along the rivers, and the highlander brigand clans independent from the royal power. The nobles had their beautiful summer houses in the interior as well, especially near Lake Muredach, however most of them were built to be defensible. The Nazairi cuisine is described to consist of "fancy meals".
After the rebellion, the Nazairians were forbidden to carry swords. Because of it, they are often equipped with elven messer, which are technically not swords but huge knives.
Economy
The country is famous for its silver and cinnabarite mines. Local artisants specialize in the production of refined silver vases and skillfully detailed ceramics. The cinnabarite is used to dye inks.
Nazair is particularly known for its cultivation of azure roses found only in this region, with faint purple shades at the tips of the petals. Cuttings are in great demand and are often smuggled out of Nazair to be sold for outrageous prices.
Notable people
For a full list of Nazairi see, see Category:Nazairi.
Adam
Becca
Drystan
Hrodeberth
Talfryn
Notable locations
Assengard
Rhys-Rhun Castle
Muredach
Cianfanelli Bank branch
Trivia
In the Blood and Wine expansion, during Capture the Castle, the Nazairi soldiers use a great number of Dutch profanities; this includes rotzak ("scumbag"), schijtlijster ("coward"), stront ("shit") and piemellikkers ("cocksuckers"). They also use the word kusse, later explained by Regis to refer to a vagina. This is akin to Dutch kut and its older form kutte, which carry the same meaning (though kusse is more likely from Danish, where it means "pussy"). Most if not all of these words are very likely Nilfgaardian.
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 The Witcher Role-Playing Game
↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Stanislav Komárek
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Dynastic descriptions
↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 Blood and Wine expansion
↑ 7.0 7.1 The Last Wish
↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 The Tower of the Swallow
↑ Thronebreaker: The Witcher Tales
↑ Gwent: The Witcher Card Game
↑ Originally designed by Mboro and adopted by CD PROJEKT RED in Ciri's family tree in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
↑ 12.0 12.1 The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings