Nibbles
Nibbles is a gray and black cat that can be encountered for the first time in Oxenfurt and then throughout the entire third game, including the Hearts of Stone expansion and the Blood and Wine expansion.
Unlike most cats, Nibbles is not threatened by Geralt. Before encountering Tamara, Geralt and Nibbles will take their time staring at each other, as if a nonverbal conversation occurs between them.
Appearances
During Family Matters, appears as a domestic cat in the house of Voytek's brother in Oxenfurt where Tamara Strenger is hiding.
During The Play's the Thing, watching Geralt's play from the roofs of Novigrad.
During Blood on the Battlefield if Geralt suggests drinking with Ciri to try and get her mind off things.
During Final Preparations, on a table during a meeting with the recently liberated sorceress Margarita Laux-Antille.
During The Isle of Mists, Nibbles is mentioned by the sleepy dwarf Gaspard.
Hearts of Stone expansion:
During Evil's Soft First Touches, runs in front of Geralt's feet when he comes near the burning Garin Estate that Olgierd von Everec and his men set on fire.
Blood and Wine expansion:
During Envoys, Wineboys, when bandits arrive and Geralt with Palmerin and Milton must help villagers.
During Paperchase in the Cianfanelli Bank in Beauclair.
During Equine Phantoms at Pinastri's Hermitage.
Nibbles also appears on the Portrait of Geralt, if the lying down position is chosen during A Portrait of the Witcher as an Old Man.
About Nibbles
"The truth is Nibbles was born as a filmmaking trick due to a technical necessity that came up," reveals CD PROJEKT RED cinematic artist, Kajetan Kapuściński.
"When Nibbles first appears in the Family Matters questline, Tamara Strenger is walking down a set of stairs before meeting with Geralt for the first time, and we needed a diversion for that short period of time. So I sat down with one of the quest designers and we added a cat sitting on a table to the scene. We had it play a small role where it would interact with Geralt by exchanging stares with the Witcher, distracting players as Tamara would descend the staircase."
Like many cats, Nibbles proved inexplicably endearing once the team got to know him. "To this day we have no idea who named the cat Nibbles, but we liked the end result so much that it became an inside joke in cinematics department. So we gave it a few more roles to play," says Kapuściński.
"We never expected the few appearances it makes in Wild Hunt to be noticed, but we're happy for Nibbles that they were. We've put that cat through a lot of life-threatening situations and it's been there as a brave observer of Geralt's story unfolding before players. Nibbles might not be part of some bigger plan, or a cursed character, or a mage practising the art of polymorphy. But he's our little actor that started out small, and, through hard work, has managed to become the star of its own little internet legend. We couldn't be any prouder of Nibbles!'Kajetan Kapuściński
Trivia
In the Polish (original) version he is called "Mruczek" which translated into English would be something like "Purry".
Videos
Family Matters quest (meeting Tamara)
References
↑ Solving the Mystery of the Witcher 3's Nibbles the Cat