Nightwraith
When the sun sets, the fields become the domain of midnight demons who draw their power from moonlight. Dark as the night itself and filled with grief, they roam the fields lit by silver light. Woe to those who are spotted by a nightwraith.
The Witcher

Journal Bestiary entry
Nightwraiths are born of moonlight, wind and the earth cooling after the heat of the day. They rise above the ground and whirl in a mad dance, which should not be seen by any mortal. If caught peeping, the mortal is blinded by moonlight, then taken into the circle and forced to dance until he expires, at times becoming a nightwraith himself.
Location
Fields
Source
Specters, Wraiths, and the Damned
Geralt can talk to an "Old peasant" around Murky Waters who will mention terrible dreams about Nightwraiths. The conversation will not result in a bestiary entry for these monsters though.
Notes
Celina, a girl in Chapter IV, turns into a nightwraith.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
A bestiary entry can be obtained by reading Of Sweat and Blood.
Bestiary entry
Nightwraiths exude this immense sadness, this helpless wraith... I fear them, same as anyone. But most of all I feel sorry for them.– Aelline Altsparr, elven trobairitz.
Compared to other creatures of the night – katakans, nekurats and werewolves, for example – nightwraiths (and their rarer cousins, duskwraiths) might not seem all that dangerous. After all, one might ask, how much harm could a pale, withered woman in a tattered dress do? The answer: quite a bit. Instead of finding this out the hard way, avoid crossing fields and meadows at night at all costs.
Like noonwraiths, nightwraiths are only found in rural areas. Travelers fall victim to them most often, but if legends are to be believed they also sneak into huts at times and murder peasants in their sleep.
When they attack nightwraiths remain immaterial for most of the time, meaning physical blows pass right through them. They only take on more tangible form for the brief moments in which they strike. When weakened, they will create several projections of themselves which cannot attack directly but act as transmitters of sorts through which the nightwraith can sap her victim's vital energy.
Nightwraiths can turn immaterial and are at such times very difficult to wound. In order to force one to take on corporeal form, trap it with the Yrden Sign or hit it with the blast of a Moon Dust bomb.
Do not believe the old wife tales and think yourself completely safe from nightwraiths during the day. They appear under the light of the sun as well - but are much weaker then than after dusk.
Combat tactics
Nightwraiths favor the dark. If you seek to claim a bounty on a nightwraith, you have to meditate until the moon hangs in the sky. Unfortunately, this is also when the nightwraith is at its strongest. If you are patient, you can find a nightwraith during the day, when it is at its weakest. Mostly incorporeal, a nightwraith must be made corporeal, either through Yrden, or Moon Dust bombs. When forced to become corporeal, silver swords can be employed to finish the wraith off. They are susceptible to Specter Oil.
When weakened, a nightwraith can split into three copies of itself. Destroy these with all haste, during this state the nightwraith saps vital energy from nearby sources. Bombs and crossbow bolts can destroy nightwraith doppelgangers. Upon entering a cloud released by a Dimeritium Bomb, they will immediately dissolve. Destroying the copies forces the real nightwraith to reveal itself.
Notes
The name "Nightwraith" is actually a misnomer. In the Polish (original) version they are called "Północnica" where "północ" means "midnight" thus the proper name would be "Midnightwraith" which mirrors the "Noonwraith", the name was probably changed for convenience. However, a creature called "Nocnica" which in English would be "Nightwraith" is mentioned in the books like The Tower of the Swallow. It is possible that both creatures are actually one and the same.
Gallery
The nightwraith is a "dark reflection" of the noonwraithThe Witcher 3: Wild Hunt - Concept artGwent card art