Novigrad
Novigrad is a free city within Redania and is therefore not subject to the rule of that kingdom. It is one of the major ports on the continent and populated by nearly 30,000 inhabitants, making it one of the largest cities in the North.
Like any true metropolis, Novigrad has many factories and is home to all manner of craftsmen offering every ware possible and one can even find the occasional con-man or shady dealer. The city is also home to numerous banks and even has a zoo. The Eternal Fire is said to protect the city's inhabitants from all evil, monsters included. The thick city walls have never been breached, as they were tactfully designed by the architects of the Oxenfurt Academy.
Novigrad is inhabited by an unusually colorful group of both permanent residents and those in town on long and short-term visits. Most eye-catching amidst the throngs of common townsfolk, stall-keepers, and craftsmen are those practicing the more roguish professions. There is no army in the city but it does have a secret service, an ever-present Temple Guard, and a powerful Temple Fleet.
National emblems
One of the most recognizable emblems of Novigrad is a silver ring with three golden keys, symbolizing opening of the land, the sea and the river. Apart from it, various motifs of the city walls and the Eternal Fire are utilized.
Emblems displayed in the infobox are an attempt to compromise designs used in various sources.
Vector renditionsStanislav KomárekRole-playing GameCD PROJEKT REDThe following illustration has been created by Wiki editors basing on official description and/or depictions.
 The following illustration has been created by Stanislav Komárek, Sapkowski's associate and translator.
The following illustration has been used in Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni.
The following illustration has been used in CD PROJEKT RED's The Witcher franchise.
History

First Landing
During the Conjunction of the Spheres, a magical passage opened at this site. Later, what began as a circle of monoliths turned into a small elven settlement. In this settlement, at the site of the passage, a temple dedicated to the moon was built. When the first human ships arrived in the Pontar Delta, the city was abandoned by the elves and it quickly became the capital of a new country created by King Sambuk, the ancestor of the first king of Redania.
Road to independence
During the reign of Vestibor the Proud, Novigrad was conquered by Temeria during the Seven Years' War. The capital of Redania was then moved to Tretogor and Novigrad became a Temerian city for a long period.
The situation changed during the reign of Vestibor's grandson, Radovid III the Bold. After long negotiations, a compromise was reached and the metropolis was acclaimed as a free city.
Northern Wars
After the First Northern War in 1263, King Vizimir II of Redania forced Novigrad into ius stapulae, blocking all merchandise passing the city for inspection and sale within the city.
The Syndicate and Witch Hunts
Although Redanian kings are officially recognized as "kings of Redania and Novigrad", real authority is vested in the hierarch by the Electoral College. By 1275 the current hierarch was Cyrus Engelkind Hemmelfart.
However, it has long been known that the city is under the control of its criminal underworld, which even the Hierarch himself is not stranger to; by 1272, the city was in fact under the control of the Syndicate and eventually later by the Big Four.
Locations
Banks
Vivaldi Bank
Cianfanelli Bank
Zammorto Bank
Redanian Post Bank
Giancardi Bank
Inns and taverns
The Spearhead
Hen Cerbin
Brothels
Passiflora
Miscellaneous
Grand Picket
Borsody Auction House
Notable people
Abner de Navarette
Carlo Varese
Chappelle
Cosma Cianfanelli
Cyrus Engelkind Hemmelfart
Drofuss
Dudu
Francis Bedlam
Frytz Kreft
Gabron Zammorto
Hieronymus Brunckhorst
Muskrat
Nino Cianfanelli
Prochaska
Schwann
Sigismund Dijkstra
Sulimir
Thommas Kretschmar
Vespula
Vimme Vivaldi
Whoreson Junior
Whoreson Senior
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
 
Novigrad is one of the three main regions in the third game, with the other two being Velen and Skellige. The city's design has been described as based on medieval Amsterdam, with touches of Venice.
Map description
Once part of Redania, Novigrad now has the status of a free city. It is the world's largest city and, without a doubt, the richest as well. Cradle of the cult of the Eternal Fire, it is now home to the church of the same name. It is ruled officially by the head of the church, referred to as the hierarch, though its underworld crime bosses also have a great deal of say in matters.
Fast travel points
Electors Square
Gate of the Hierarch
Hierarch Square
Glory Gate
Novigrad Docks
Oxenfurt Gate
Portside Gate
Southern Gate
St. Gregory's Bridge
Tretogor Gate
Notable landmarks
Crippled Kate's
The Golden Sturgeon
Whoreson Junior's arena
Zerrikanian Spice Company
The Kingfisher Inn
Passiflora
Whoreson Junior's casino
Rosemary and Thyme (The Chameleon)
Seven Cats Inn
Sewers
Districts
The Bits
Farcorners
Fish Market
Glory Lane
Gildorf
Harborside
Hierarch Square
Lacehalls
Putrid Grove
Silverton
Temple Isle
Trivia
Novigrad as seen in third game is inspired by medieval Amsterdam and Gdańsk.
Novigrad, or Novi Grad, means "Newtown", "Newcity" or "Newcastle" in various Slavic languages, and it is the name of different cities in various Slavic countries (such as Novigrad, Croatia).
The concept of the Free City of Novigrad is mainly based on the historical Free City of Gdańsk, which was such a city-state twice between 1807-1815 and 1920-1939, but also had considerable independence as a royal city of Poland from the 15th to the 18th centuries. Like Novigrad, the city was also a large and rich port on the (Baltic) sea, with a very strong economical and cultural position. There were also witch trials in the town.
Notes
In Chapter I of The Witcher, one of the travelers recognizes Geralt of Rivia, and comments on how the witcher helped him with some garkains in Novigrad several years prior. However, he couldn't pay the witcher for his services at the time but can do so now and gives him 100 .
Mentioned several time before, Novigrad and its surroundings finally appear in Curse of Crows following the story of Ciri and Geralt.
In The Hexer, the first part of the episode "Dolina Kwiatów" takes place in Novigrad, where Geralt and Dandelion encounter a doppler impersonating Dainty Biberveldt, a halfling merchant.
Videos
What is the Novigrad? The Witcher Lore - The Free City of Novigrad
Gallery
concept art of NovigradiansGreat Temple alias Grand PicketDocksSeaportSeaport - another viewSome other streetStreet in the richer parts of the citySlumsThe Passiflora brothel interiorNovigrad in the Curse of CrowsNovigrad on cover of 2nd issue of "Biały Wilk" (The White Wolf) magazineSeaport from Wiedźmin: Gra WyobrazniCity plan from Wiedźmin: Gra WyobrazniNovigrad in Of Flesh and FlameGwent standalone card art
References
↑ Gwent: The Witcher Card Game
↑ Stanislav Komárek
↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.8 Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
↑ 5.0 5.1 Blood of Elves
↑ Redanian Dynasty - Radovid I the Great
↑ Redanian Dynasty - Vestibor the Proud
↑ 8.0 8.1 Redanian Dynasty - Radovid III the Bold
↑ The Witcher 3 preview and interview by The Average Gamer
↑ The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt Artbook