Orianna
Lie still, lie silent, utter no cries.
- Gwent: The Witcher Card GameAudio version: Media:Orianna voice line.mp3
Orianna was a bruxa living in Toussaint around 1275. She was a good and longtime friend of a higher vampire Emiel Regis Rohellec Terzieff-Godefroy.
Biography
Orianna appeared to be very wealthy and a philanthropist, owning an orphanage and an estate, where at the latter she hosted lavish parties for artists, one of which Geralt and Anna Henrietta attended in disguise. She also paid a good deal of money to acquire the Heart of Toussaint, an heirloom that had been passed down through Toussaint's royal family but was lost when the last one to inherit it, Princess Sylvia Anna, was exiled from the kingdom. Orianna also appeared to be acquainted with Dettlaff and Regis, where she stated the latter as her friend from the past.
However, her generosity with owning an orphanage turned out to have more sinister motives. Like many vampires, Orianna had a craving for blood but she preferred children's blood and periodically fed off the children there to satisfy her craving, though she did not kill them.
Encountering Geralt second time and death
 
Seemingly several years later, as Geralt promised when leaving Orianna's orphanage, he came back for her. Geralt approached and remarked on remembering the tune he last heard from the orphanage Orianna hummed. When he noted that the locals paid him to kill her, she remarked that in times past Witchers would never take such a contract, with Geralt retorting times change. She then threw off her clothes and became invisible, quickly disappearing into the nearby barn.
Following her into the barn, Geralt threw a Moon Dust bomb which partially revealed Orianna in her invisible form. A duel ensued during which the vampire gained the upper hand, biting Geralt's neck and consuming some of his blood. Unbeknownst to her, the Witcher had drunk a Black Blood potion before the fight. By the time Orianna realized something was wrong, the effects of her would-be victim's poisoned blood had taken hold, diminishing her powers and allowing Geralt to turn the tables on the bruxa. After having her left arm severed, she tried to escape but was quickly finished off by two shots to the back from Geralt's crossbow.
As the Witcher prepared to take the vampire's head as a trophy, he seemingly succumbed to his injuries, collapsing next to his prey, who changed back to her human form as she died. The next morning Geralt regained consciousness, his strength returning, and saw that Orianna's corpse had partially disintegrated. Leaving her body where it lay, the Witcher mounted his faithful Roach and began riding towards Beauclair.
Journal entry
During the soiree organized by the Mandragora, Geralt met Orianna, a valued patroness to many local artists. There was something about this woman that made most who met her feel somehow ill at ease. She could not break the witcher's iron-hard self-composure, of course, but she did give him the impression she was no normal aristocrat – and his impressions were usually spot-on.
Regis' charismatic friend was revealed to be a fellow vampire, though nowhere near as civilized and humanitarian as he. She owned an orphanage outside the city which, as the witcher discovered to his horror, she used as a sort of blood cellar, visiting it whenever the urge struck her to drink some blood straight from an orphan's neck. Geralt swore that if they ever met again...
Associated quests
The Man from Cintra
What Lies Unseen
Blood Simple
Trivia
She was played by Zsuzsanna Rácz in the trailer and voiced by Laura Doddington in both the trailer and the game. Rácz stated on her personal Twitter that it is "one of her best works". Since then, she has given an interview discussing the experience.
Notes
Originally, fans were divided over Orianna's exact race, with the developers neither confirming nor denying it. The narrative designer, Mateusz Tomaszkiewicz, later confirmed it was better to classify her as a bruxa.
Gallery
Orianna by Antonio Jose Gonzalez and Sebastian BakalaOrianna together with Regis and DettlaffGwent card art