Oxenfurt
Oxenfurt is a Redanian city located on the northern shore of the Pontar river and southeast of Novigrad. It is famous for its Academy, which is the largest in the Northern Kingdoms. It is about three hundred miles west of Tretogor.
It is a bustling and bawdy haven for students, artists, scholars, and freethinkers. Here the young reign supreme (in spirit, if not always in fact), with a mug of something strong in hand as they blaze new trails in fashion and thought, confident that the rest of the world will soon follow.
History

First Landing
The area where Oxenfurt stands was originally inhabited by the elves. When the humans arrived during the First Landing around five hundred years ago, elves abandoned the area. Humans built a city in place of the original settlement, with some elven buildings surviving to modern era.
Notable people
Albert Solpietra
Edmund Bumbler
Emmerich Gottschalk
Jean La Voisier
Linus Pitt
Michelet brothers
Myhrman
Leon Oppenhauser
Radcliffe
Vatslav
Robert Hilbert
Mignole
Ewald Borsodi
Horst Borsodi
Yaromir Ivanovitz Zaytsev
Shani
Stjepan
Wolfgang Amadeus Goatbeard
Locations
Guildenstern bridge
Philosophers' Gate
The Rosebud
Thinker's Park
Three Little Bells
Oxenfurt Academy
Oxenfurt Harbor
Andrzej Sapkowski
The wooden, colorful town of Oxenfurt with its narrow streets and pointed roofs. The town of Oxenfurt which lived off the Academy, off its students, lecturers, scholars, researchers and their guests, who lived off science and knowledge, off what accompanies the process of learning. In the town of Oxenfurt, from the by-products and chippings of theory, practice, business and profit were born.
The poet rode slowly along a muddy, crowded street, passing workshops, studios, stalls, shops small and large where, thanks to the Academy, tens of thousands of articles and wonderful things were produced and sold which were unattainable in other corners of the world where their production was considered impossible, or pointless. He passed inns, taverns, stands, huts, counters and portable grills from which floated the appetising aromas of elaborate dishes unknown elsewhere in the world, seasoned in ways not known anywhere else. This was Oxenfurt, the colorful, joyful, noisy and sweet-smelling town of miracles into which shrewd people, full of initiative, had turned dry and useless theories drawn little by little from the university.pgs. 190 - 191, Blood of Elves (UK edition)
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
In the third installment of the trilogy, Oxenfurt appears as the second largest city in the game. The city is situated east of the region Velen. It's also featured as a main showplace in Hearts of Stone expansion, the first expansion for The Witcher 3. There is also an interesting book describing the city, Pearls of the North - Oxenfurt.
However, there are some inconsistencies with the appearance of the city described in the book. The University has quite a different appearance, lacking the mentioned aqueduct and sewage treatment plants. Even the currency of the city does not appear nor is it ever mentioned.
Locations
Novigrad Gate
Oxenfurt Harbor
Western Gate
The Alchemy
Deireadh prison
Whoreson Junior's mansion
The Borsodis' Auction House
Oxenfurt sewers
Associated quests
Contract: The Oxenfurt Drunk
Contract: The Creature from Oxenfurt Forest
Evil's First Soft Touches 
Family Matters
Get Junior
Gwent: Playing Innkeeps
Open Sesame! 
Rough Neighborhood
Scavenger Hunt: Cat School Gear
The Taxman Cometh 
The Volunteer
Trivia
The Oxenfurt city banner is a clear homage to the Cambridge University coat of arms.
Oxenfurt is similar to the city of Oxford in the United Kingdom. Both have a world-famous university and their names are similar. It even looks like Oxenfurt is somehow Germanized form of Oxford (Ox-Ochse, Ford-Furt). One of the Old English names for Oxford was 'Oxenaforda'.
Ochsenfurt is the name of a small town near Würzburg in Southern Germany.
In The Witcher 3, the city that is now Oxenfurt was originally intended to be White Bridge. It was likely changed late in development, considering many assets and files still bear the name of White Bridge, including the Polish journal entry for The Volunteer.
This is also backed by the fact that White Bridge is meant to be on the Pontar while Oxenfurt is meant to be on the Redanian side.
Gallery
Gwent: The Witcher Card Game card art of Oxenfurt guard