Pavetta
Sub-Pages:
Main
Netflix series
"Do you really wish to know?" — Spoilers from the books and/or adaptations to follow!
No... NOOO!
- Pavetta losing control of the force Gwent: The Witcher Card GameAudio version: Media:Princess Pavetta voice line.mp3
Pavetta Fiona Elen was the granddaughter of Queen Adalia and daughter of Queen Calanthe and King Roegner of Ebbing. She was a Source and the mother of Ciri.
Quick Answers
What is the relationship between Pavetta and Ciri in The Witcher?
						Pavetta is the mother of Ciri in The Witcher. She was the princess of Cintra and fell in love with a man named Duny, who later became her husband. They had a daughter, Ciri, but tragically, Pavetta and Duny were lost at sea when Ciri was less than 10 years old. Despite this, the bond between Pavetta and Ciri is significant, with Pavetta's primal power being a key aspect of their relationship.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What happened to Pavetta, Ciri's mother, in The Witcher?
						Pavetta, the mother of Ciri in The Witcher, was the princess of Cintra and the daughter of Queen Calanthe and King Roegner. She fell in love with a man named Duny, who was cursed with a hedgehog-like head during the day. They had a daughter, Ciri, but tragically, when Ciri was less than 10 years old, Pavetta and Duny set out on a ship and were lost at sea. Before their departure, Pavetta had left Ciri behind with her mother, Calanthe, who then raised Ciri.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What are the differences between Pavetta and her mother Calanthe in The Witcher?
						Pavetta and her mother Calanthe, both significant characters in The Witcher, have several differences. Pavetta, who is Ciri's mother, was the princess of Cintra and was known for her quiet and peaceful nature. She fell in love with a man named Duny, who was cursed with a hedgehog-like head during the day. Despite this, their love was strong and they had a daughter, Ciri. On the other hand, Calanthe, Pavetta's mother, was the queen of Cintra and was known for her strong will and strategic mind. She was more involved in politics and was keen on forming alliances, such as with Skellige. Unlike Pavetta, Calanthe was more assertive and intervened in her daughter's marriage plans.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
Why did Queen Calanthe stop Pavetta's marriage in The Witcher?
						In The Witcher, Queen Calanthe initially arranged for her daughter, Pavetta, to marry Crach an Craite to secure power for Cintra. However, during the betrothal party, Lord Urcheon of Erlenwald, also known as Duny, interrupted the ceremony to claim Pavetta's hand in marriage. Despite his monstrous form, Pavetta was in love with Duny, and Queen Calanthe, moved by this, allowed them to get married, unknowingly breaking Duny's curse in the process.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Pavetta","mainEntity":}
Biography

Early life
At the age of ten, Pavetta was set to marry, though Calanthe later broke the vows, believing her too young. Three years later, when Pavetta was thirteen, Calanthe again stopped her marriage.
Pavetta was unlike her mother in that she preferred quiet activities and being alone. In particular, the young princess loved to read poetry and listen to music. Calanthe, however, thought these activities would weaken her daughter's health and subsequently tried to drag her out to do other things, though Pavetta would try to find a way to sneak off during them to go read.
On one such occasion, while she was reading some poetry, an armored body of a human, but the head of a hedgehog, appeared out of the bushes, causing her to drop her poetry book in surprise. The creature picked it up and began to read the poetry aloud, then began to recite other poetry by heart. For several weeks, the two met and continued to read and recite together and the hedgehog being eventually persuaded Pavetta to meet him after dark one night. After bribing her servants, she met him and to her astonishment, at the stroke of midnight, he transformed from a hedgehog to a handsome young man, who then informed her he was a cursed prince named Duny.
Meetings became regular and more frequent and the two lovers got careless and word got back to Calanthe about a year after they first met. Remembering Roegner and the Law of Surprise, Calanthe decided she needed to get rid of the hedgehog being and so brought in a witcher.
15th birthday feast
Unknown to Pavetta, she was bound by Destiny since birth by the Law of Surprise, for Duny (under the name Urcheon) had saved her father's life. Calanthe, not realizing Duny was Urcheon but wanting to get rid of the interloper and prevent Urcheon from claiming Pavetta, held a feast for the princess' would-be-suitors around Pavetta's 15th birthday and had invited Geralt under the pretext of keeping things civilized. The feast was going well when a knight arrived with a helmet over his head and claimed to be "Urcheon of Erlenwald" and explained that he was there to collect his reward for saving King Roegner's life: Pavetta, through the Law of Surprise. While Calanthe acknowledged this, she refused to give her daughter to a stranger and through trickery, had her people ring the bell to say it was midnight before it actually was to get Urcheon to remove his helmet. When he did, he revealed a hedgehog face.
Thinking her daughter wouldn't go with the "monster" now, Calanthe stated the law was void and her daughter must agree she wouldn't go with him. However, Pavetta stated she would go with him, causing an uproar and the other suitors tried to attack Urcheon/Duny. Geralt and Eist tried to defend Duny, but suddenly the force within Pavetta broke loose and sent furniture and suitors flying. Eventually Pavetta was distracted enough for Geralt and Mousesack to bring her back to her senses.
With things calmed down, Pavetta and Duny explained that they'd been seeing each other for over a year and had fallen in love and Calanthe agreed to let them get married, unknowingly breaking the curse by doing so. As thanks, Duny asks what he could offer Geralt for saving his life and Geralt responded "that which you already have but do not know", revealing to the group that Pavetta was in fact pregnant. This child turned out to be Ciri.
Death
Years later, Pavetta and Duny were believed to be killed as Vilgefortz caused the ship they were on to sink. In fact, Vilgefortz had been conspiring with Duny to bring both Pavetta and Ciri to Nilfgaard. Pavetta ultimately figured out Duny's plans and arranged to leave Ciri behind with her grandmother, much to Duny's ire. The two then argued and she fell overboard and drowned.
Vilgefortz went ahead with his part of the plan, unaware that things at Duny's end had unraveled so only Duny was magically brought to Nilfgaard in the end.
Notes
She appeared in The Hexer TV series in episode 6, "Calanthe".
She's the second member born in the Cintran line whose first name doesn't follow the tradition of beginning with a "C". Unlike Dagorad (her grandfather) it's unclear why hers is different.
Gallery
Pavetta in The HexerIllustration by Jana Komarková from Czech edition of The Last WishPavetta in Netflix's The Witcher
References
↑ Time of Contempt
↑ Genealogy of Ciri - Pavetta
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Pavetta