Place of Power
See: Intersection
The Witcher
In The Witcher, Places of Power are (nearly) invisible spots where magic is concentrated. They are not Circles of Elements. Unlike those, Places of Power are practically invisible until Geralt approaches them. There is an audible roaring sound when he gets close enough to them which is also a clue to finding them. And finally, if the witcher medallion is set to detect magic, it will vibrate near the Places of Power.
 These places of power are indicated on maps with a blue dot.
Rituals:
In these spots, depending on how talents have been allocated, Geralt can perform different rituals.
Icon
Name
Description
Ritual of Magic
All Signs' intensity increased by 100% for 5 hours.
Ritual of Purification
Rids the body of Toxicity and intoxication, it has similar effect as using a White Honey potion, i.e. nullifying any current potion effects in addition to detoxification. However, in contradiction to the White Honey, it does not nullify effects gained from additional substances or the Cat potion.
Ritual of Life
Regeneration speed increased, just like a Swallow potion, for 1 hour and 40 minutes.
Teleportation Crystal
If Geralt has the Teleportation crystal, which is given to him from Kalkstein in A Mysterious Tower, he can teleport to Kalkstein's laboratory.
Geralt can perform the Ritual of Magic by default. The other two rituals require higher level Intelligence upgrades before they can be performed.
Mechanics:
Left-click on the blue light source to activate a Place of Power.
Choose the action you want to perform from the list of available actions, initially there is only the Ritual of Magic.
There are Places of power in all locations of the game, except Kaer Morhen keep, in the Prologue.
Locations:
Outskirts: outside the crypt, one inside the crypt and a third between the Salamandra hideout and the southern cave.
Sewers: outside the fisstech lab, one where Gellert Bleinheim waits and in the tunnel leading to the elven ruins.
Swamp: on a small island just east of Wyvern Island, on a small island just west of the brickmakers' village, and at the foot of Melitele's shrine.
Lakeside: one near the lakeside south of the Fisher King's hut, another at western exit from the Lakeside to the Fields.
Murky Waters: one outside, east of the Country Inn, up a small hill.
Fields: north of the hermit's compound.
Swamp cemetery: not far from the old mine, and also in Saint Gregory's tomb chamber.
Old Manor: by the shipwreck on the way to the landing.
The Price of Neutrality premium module: one near the wyverns and one northwest of the camp.
Maps:
These maps show the locations of places of power in The Witcher and The Price of Neutrality premium module:
OutskirtsOutskirts cryptVizima sewersSwampLakesideMurky WatersFieldsSwamp cemeterySt. Gregory's tombOld ManorThe Price of Neutrality premium module
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
In the second game there are Circles of Power, which have similar effects.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
 
In the third game places of power return and will grant Geralt of Rivia a Skill Point if their locations are found and then activated. It is important to find these as there are a limited number of Skill Points in the game. Each Place of Power is tied to one of the 5 Signs and will increase that Sign's intensity when drawn from.
Locations
White Orchard (Six Places)
East of the Abandoned Village, a Bear awaits nearby (Yrden)
Southwest of the Abandoned Village (Quen)
Northeast of the Sawmill (Axii)
North of the Mill, in front of a crypt, a Wraith will spawn upon first time approaching (Igni)
Even further north from the Place of Power by the crypt (Aard)
North of the Crossroads, just next to a ghoul nest (Quen)
Velen/Novigrad (Eight Places)
Just southeast of Alness. (Axii)
Near the summit of Bald Mountain, by a path beneath the giant tree. This Place of Power is only accessible during or after a quest. The marker on map is northwest of Destroyed Bastion. (Quen)
South of Frischlow, near the coast. (Aard)
Just west of the Ancient Oak. (Igni)
In a path to a treasure room to the left after finishing the 4 guardians puzzle during the Magic Lamp side quest. Keira cannot follow you here. To access it later, go to the Boat icon on the map northeast of Byways, to find the cave entrance. (Yrden)
Lornruk, at the base of the fort by the waters, guarded by several Drowners. (Quen)
Northeast of Electors' Square signpost in Novigrad, within the temple, near the main brazier by cliff's edge. (Igni)
Northwest of Downwarren, atop a hill that mounds above Dragonslayer's Grotto. (Yrden)
Skellige (Nine Places)
Southwest of Crossroads, in the water. (Axii)
By the mountain path northwest of Kaer Muire (Axii)
Inside the Ancient Crypt, only accessible during or after The Sunstone main quest. (Igni)
In a tunnel connected to Kaer Trolde cellar. The marker on the map is northwest of Bridge to Kaer Trolde signpost. This particular Place of Power is only accessible when and if player help Cerys during a certain quest. (Quen)
Easternmost road of Ard Skellig, on the second level of a ruined building. Closest marker on the map is Gedyneith to the west. (Aard)
Slightly north of Druids Camp (Yrden)
At the summit of Yngvar's Fang (Quen)
West of Harviken, by an altar. (Yrden)
Northwest Spikeroog, near Udalryk's Family Home. Players will have to remove some debris inside one of the rooms on the main floor and jump to the other side through a destroyed wall. (Igni)
Kaer Morhen
Encountered during the quest The Final Trial, by a pathway that stretch from the exit of the first cavern (the one housing Old Speartip) towards Circle of Elements. Because there's no notice board in Kaer Morhen, this Place of Power cannot be marked on the map until discovered. (Igni)
Toussaint (five places)
Inside Albertus Grotto (entrance is North of Rioux-Cannes Outpost), at the end of a path that branches to the cavern's southeastern edge (Axii)
Southern shore of Seidhe Llygad (the lake southwest of Beauclair). The closest signpost is Hortense Vineyard to the east. (Aard)
North of Arthach Palace Ruins, guarded by a relatively strong necrophage. (Yrden)
In a hollowed space of the rocky hills in which Fort Ussar Ruins lies on top. This spot can be reached from the western entry path to the ruins. (Igni)
Behind a cracked wall in a hidden chamber of Termes Palace Ruins. The chamber lies south from the entrance to the dungeon where diagrams for Grandmaster Wolven gear are kept. (Quen)
Other
In the quest Through Time and Space there is a missable Aard place of power in the world of vapors. If it is missed, the ability point granted by it is lost.
Notes
Ability points gained from places of power carry over to New Game + while the places of power reset. Thus, you can gain more ability points from them on another playthrough.
Gallery
Aard Sign place of powerAxii Sign place of powerIgni Sign place of powerQuen Sign place of powerYrden Sign place of power