Rivia
Rivia was a small kingdom in the Dol Angra valley, at the foot of the Mahakam mountains. Throughout the history it entered a personal union with its neighbour kingdom of Lyria about as many times as it fought a war with it.
History

Settlement
Most of the ancestors of modern Rivia's inhabitants settled here in two waves: the first after the Six Years' War in the 9th century and the second in the 11th, both comprised mainly of war refugees and opponents of Temerian and Cintran rulers. Until the 12th century, Rivia became one of two major powers in the region.
12th century
In 1133, the ruler of the second power, King Berrik of Lyria, ascended Rivia's throne creating the first union of the two realms. It lasted no longer than a generation, as after his death the kingdoms were inherited by two different heirs.
While Temeria was dealing with Falka's rebellion, Berrik's Rivian heir expanded his realm with lands of Angren and left-bank Riverdell. The latter would switch it rulers a couple of times in the subsequent decades, making it disputable between Rivia, Cintra, Temeria and Sodden. Apart from the conflicts, there were also arranged marriages with the Temerians: Rivian prince Hugo married Queen Bienvenu of Temeria and the Temerian noble family of Delen intermarried into the main branch of the Rivian dynasty, bringing its ancestral sword into the royal tapestries.
13th century
In the first half of the 13th century, King Reginald of Rivia married Lyrian princess Meve, joining the two kingdoms one more time. In 1258, Rivia faced a rebellion led by the Brossard family; the king's forces decimated almost all Brossards, but he died shortly later. In 1259, the throne was ceded to his wife who continued to rule the kingdoms until the Northern Wars, when in early July 1267, the kingdom was invaded by the Nilfgaardian Army and so the capital prepared for a siege lasting months, but later capitulated after two days under the pressure of the guilds and merchants who were promised that, should the town open its gates and pay a ransom, it wouldn't be sacked, which was honoured by the Nilfgardians; thus began the Imperial control of Rivia. In 1268, after the Northern War II, the capital city of Rivia was a place of infamous pogrom against nonhumans.
Several centuries later, when the 13th century was considered antiquity and the location of Rivia was forgotten, its coat of ams was still remembered.
National Emblems
National symbol of Rivia are red lozenges. They appear in the kingdom's coat of arms as well as in the coats of arms of several respectable Rivian knightly houses.
Rivia's coat of arms were a part of the coat of arms of Lyria and Rivia alongside the Lyrian Eagle and Rivian Lions. Lions were eventually adopted to Rivia's arms as well and the emblems consisting of both Lions and Lozenges would be remembered centuries after the kingdom had disappeared from maps.
Emblems in the infobox and below have been created by Wiki editors basing on official description and/or depictions.
First known arms of Rivia
Variant with more lozenges
First union arms
Last union arms
First known flag
Variant with more lozenges
Union flag
Geography and Climate
 
Rivia is situated at the foot of the Mahakam mountains, on the eastern side of the range. To the west, through Klamat Pass, one can reach Angren. The country is hilly, covered with forests and lakes. The capital, Rivia city, is located at the Loch Eskalott below the Craag Ros hills.
Society and Culture
Rivians speak the Common Speech with a specific accent unique to themselves. They are distinct enough to face prejudice in other Northern Realms such as Temeria or Aedirn, where they are considered thieves and derogatorily referred to as "Rivs". In their own country Rivians display prejudice against nonhumans, especially the dwarves with whom they compete over profits from the smithing industry.
Economy
Rivia's fine workshops and smithies make weapons and wares lauded for quality and craftsmanship. Most of the country's income, however, comes from the assimilated dwarves living in ghettos.
Notable locations
City of Rivia
Loch Eskalott
Craag Ros Hills
Willowhain
Kaveldun
Egon's Road
Maloebon Castle
Devil's Tower
Count Caldwell's estate
Broadhead
Notable people
For a full list of Rivians, see Category:Rivians.
Hugo
Reginald
Chevron Knight
Gascon Brossard
Nadia Esposito
Reynard Odo
Wirsing