She-troll of Vergen
Rocks be ladytroll bestest friends.
- Gwent: The Witcher Card GameAudio version: Media:She-Troll of Vergen voice line.mp3
The She-Troll of Vergen was a troll who lived in the gullies near Vergen with her husband.
Biography
The She-Troll of Vergen resided with her husband in the gullies near the dwarven town of Vergen. One day, after her husband had gone into the gullies to search for soup ingredients, he returned with a red-haired woman. She became upset with her husband, believing the woman was too thin. Annoyed, she set off on her own to find better ingredients.
Sometime later, she returned with some elves she had found, only to discover her husband petting the woman and sniffing her bandana. This infuriated her even more, and she dropped the elves, angrily declaring that either the human must go, or she would. Her husband responded by saying he liked the human's smell. Enraged, the she-troll beat her husband with a stick and left, taking the bandana with her.
If Iorveth's Path was chosen: While wandering alone in the gullies, she encountered Adam Pangratt and some of his mercenaries who had become trapped on the Vergen side of the mist. The mercenaries attacked her just as the Witcher Geralt of Rivia arrived.
If Geralt sided with the she-troll: Geralt spoke to the mercenaries, explaining that he needed her alive. The mercenaries refused, so Geralt fought alongside the she-troll, defeating them and sending the survivors to Vergen to surrender to the rebels. She thanked the witcher for his help, and he persuaded her to return to her husband. Reluctantly, she did.
When she reunited with her husband, she gave Geralt the redhead's bandana as a token of thanks. Later, during the Kaedweni army's siege of Vergen, she and her husband joined the defense of the town, fighting at the gates and preventing the Kaedwenis from advancing. The defense succeeded, and Vergen became the capital of the Realm of the Pontar Valley.
If Geralt sided with the Adam Pangratt: Geralt sided with the mercenaries, reasoning that she was a threat. Together, the witcher and the mercenaries fought and killed the she-troll.
If Roche's Path was chosen: Eventually, she returned to her husband. One day, while in their lair, Letho passed through. When the she-troll attempted to speak to him, he struck her in the face. Her husband tried to defend her but was wounded.
Later, while wandering in the gullies, she encountered Síle de Tansarville, who told her she was merely passing through on her way to Vergen. Shortly after, Geralt of Rivia and Vernon Roche appeared.
If they spoke with the She-Troll: Despite Roche's urging to kill her, Geralt kept a cool head and decided to talk with her. Upset but willing to speak, she told them about the others who had passed through. Afterward, she went to sleep but warned them that if they saw her husband, they should tell him not to wake her.
If they fought with the She-Troll: Impatient, Geralt and Roche chose to fight her instead of talking. She died in the ensuing battle.
Journal entry
I can confirm, based on my own experience, that feelings of jealousy for a partner and demands for monogamy (even if made for the wrong reasons) can cause many a quarrel and even, on occasion, outright end a relationship. As it turned out, she-trolls are not immune to these feelings and are perfectly capable of turning into "screamers," thus spoiling the idyll of the family hut.
If Geralt chooses to help her against Adam Pangratt during Chapter II: Where is Triss Merigold?:
Once more Geralt put the cart before the horse as the witchers' rules go and stood alongside the monster, rather than the humans. He even managed to convince the troll to return to her husband, who eagerly awaited her.
The final episode took place when both creatures arrived in Vergen to help defend it. The Kaedweni had occasion to learn that the phrase "the monstrosities of war" can be more than a figure of speech.
If Geralt chooses to kill her during Chapter II: Where is Triss Merigold?:
If a monster is busy killing humans, Geralt tends to put his scruples aside. Seeing no chance for dialogue, he ended the female troll's life.
Associated quests
Where is Triss Merigold?
Vergen Besieged
The Siege of Vergen
Achievements
In order to obtain the Friend of Trolls achievement, Geralt must choose to help her.
In order to obtain the Trollslayer achievement, Geralt must kill her.
Videos
Trolls of Vergen (The Witcher 2) Full HDHow Triss Broke up Happy Troll Family
Gallery
Geralt and Roche meet the She-troll (Roche path)Gwent standalone card art
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: She-Troll of Vergen