Succubus
A succubus (female) or incubus (male) is a creature, sometimes considered "a demon", looking like a highly attractive human being seducing real humans, first appearing in dreams from time to time, then physically, and is interested only in men that have already come of age. Neither succubi nor incubi are particularly violent, though they draw energy from the men and women to sustain themselves, often until the point of exhaustion or death of the victim.
Quick Answers
What is the meaning of 'sukkubus'?
						'Sukkubus' denotes a creature, perceived as a demon, manifesting as an alluring human. It entices humans, initially in dreams, then physically, focusing on mature men. Succubi, while not inherently violent, extract energy from individuals for sustenance, potentially leading to their exhaustion or demise.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How does a succubus sustain itself?
						A succubus, a creature that takes the form of an attractive female, sustains itself by drawing energy from adult humans, often until their exhaustion or death. They are not typically violent, nor do they crave human blood. Their primary motivation is an insatiable lust, which they attempt to satisfy through sexual acts with other humanoid species. While not harmful in a conventional sense, their energy-draining actions can lead their victims to ruin.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What is the process of killing a succubus in Witcher 3?
						In Witcher 3, Geralt eliminates a succubus through a series of steps. He first locates the succubus, converses with her, and despite her justifications, proceeds to punish her for her crimes. The steps include interacting with the guard and medic, using Witcher Senses to scrutinize the crime scene and follow the tracks. Notably, before Patch 4.0, steel swords were effective against the succubus, not silver.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What is the significance of a succubus' name?
						A 'succubus' is a creature, often viewed as a demon, that takes on the form of an attractive human. These beings seduce men, first in dreams and then physically, to draw energy for sustenance. Contrary to some beliefs, succubi do not have a desire to kill or a craving for human blood. Their primary drive is an overwhelming lust, which they attempt to satiate through sexual encounters with other humanoid species.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How does a succubus appear in dreams?
						A succubus, sometimes considered a demon, manifests in dreams as a highly attractive human, seducing mature men. While not violent, the succubus drains energy from these men to sustain itself, often leading to their exhaustion or death.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Succubus","mainEntity":}
Notable succubi
Natanis, from Beauclair
Vara
Salma, from Novigrad
Succubus of Ard Skellig
Succubus of Murky Waters
Succubus of Vergen
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
A bestiary entry can be obtained by reading Journey to the End of the World.
Bestiary entry
Again?! Good grief, woman, I'm spent...– Lester of Smallton to a succubus, a few days before taking a vow of celibacy
Unlike other monsters, succubi and menads feel no desire to kill, do not crave human blood and usually do not, in fact, mean any harm at all. They are motivated by one thing and one thing only: an insatiable lust. They try in vain to slake this by engaging in sexual acts with any other humanoid species they encounter. While it must be admitted that their "victims" rarely put up much resistance, this does not mean succubi and menads do not present any danger: their never-ending advances, though pleasurable at first, have pushed more than one man to madness or even death.
Succubi and menads usually can be found near human settlement, including small villages and populous cities. They prowl at night, though when stricken by serious need they will leave their lairs during the day as well. They shower their affections on men as well as women, the young as well as the old, the ugly as well as the beautiful. Some of them are particularly fond of pastors and other holy men, whose seduction they treat as a sort of game.
Though succubi are peaceful by nature, when forced to fight they will defend themselves fiercely. One should thus not be fooled by their fair appearance – under the velvety skin of their arms lie muscles of iron, and a blow delivered with their rear, goat-like legs or the thick horns on their head can easily crush bone.
Combat tactics
Clever witchers may be able to talk down a succubus, with stories of witchers seducing a succubus and allowing them to flee a region whispered among commoners. Should a witcher choose to slay a succubus, they must act quickly. Succubi are known for their surprising brute strength.
They can also be accomplished spell-slingers in their own right, commanding fire with natural aptitude. The simple flashes of fire that a succubus can call upon can disrupt any sword technique a witcher is capable of, and there is no defense save for quen, or frantic rolls away from the flames.
Relentlessness is key. A succubus cannot be allowed to control a battle. Exploding bolts or aard can disrupt their spell-weaving, Northern Wind can freeze them in place. A witcher will succeed in slaying a succubus if they can pin them down and unleash a flurry of strikes.
Note: Prior to Patch 4.0, succubi were vulnerable to steel swords instead of silver. This caused a unique problem as one could not actually use hybrid oil against them, which also meant that perks requiring use of an appropriate oil, like Protective Coating, would not work.
Associated quest
Practicum in Advanced Alchemy
Notes
In the House of Glass graphic novel, there is one major succubus character named Vara of Vengerberg. She is depicted as similar to succubi from the game series, except that she lacks cloven hooves. She does have wings and can look very like a human, and she is shown in her true form only once in the comic.
Despite succubi being sentient and relatively non-violent, they are brethren to fiends and chorts.
The listed loot is actually a custom set scripted for the succubus of Ard Skellig, while only Salma can drop generic succubi loot.
In the Blood and Wine expansion, during the secondary quest Equine Phantoms, the umbra that Geralt chases is strangely labeled as "incubus" for a brief second while transforming, despite the male counterparts not appearing as of yet in the adaptions.
Some speculate this is due to the quest originally featuring an incubi as the "demon" haunting Pinastri, not an umbra, backed by the similar behaviours between the creatures.
Trivia
Succubi and incubi are mythical demons who seduce people. Such creatures are found within various mythologies.
The portrayal of succubi in The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings and The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt shares similarities with the half-human, half goat faun or satyr of Greco-Roman folklore. Vara from House of Glass seems to resemble the traditional depiction of succubus instead.
Gallery
Succubus of Vergen in The Witcher 2: Assassins of KingsVara in House of GlassSuccubus render in The Witcher Battle ArenaSuccubus in The Witcher Battle ArenaIn The Witcher 3: Wild HuntSuccubus of Ard Skellig in The Witcher 3: Wild HuntSalma in The Witcher 3: Wild HuntIncubus cardart in Gwent: The Witcher Card Game
References
↑ The Lady of the Lake
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Succubus