Thanedd Island
The island seemed very close, and it didn't resemble an island. It looked like the base of a gigantic stone column stuck into the seabed, a huge ziggurat encircled by a spirally twisting road and zigzagging steps and terraces. The terraces were green with groves and gardens, and protruding from the greenery — which clung to the rocks like swallows' nests — rose soaring white towers and the ornate domes of groups of buildings framed by cloisters. The buildings gave no clue at all that they had been constructed from stone. They seemed to have been carved directly from the mountain's rocky slopes.pg. 66, Time of Contempt (U.K. edition)
Isle of Thanedd is located in the bay northwest of Gors Velen in Temeria, to which it is connected by a bridge. Primarily the location of the Aretuza academy for training young females in magic, Thanedd is divided into three main areas:
Aretuza - the magic academy
Garstang - main palace
Loxia - reception complex
Built by the elves and 'crowned' by the tower Tor Lara, the island itself is hollow, like a shell, and can be accessed either by the bridge (the conventional route), or from the sea via the underground passages (a less traditional, though certainly stealthier way).
History

Foundation
After the Age of Migration in the 1240s BR, the Aen Seidhe constructed the grand complex atop the rocky island, with the help of magic to lift the heavy stone from which it was built.
Brotherhood takeover
In the late 8th century, after the First Landing of humans, the Brotherhood of Sorcerers took over the palace and began to primarily base their operations from there.
Thanedd coup
On the night of June 30th 1267, during one of the Brotherhood's Grand Mage's Conclaves on the island, several northern supporting mages led by Philippa Eilhart arrested those suspected to be allied with Nilfgaard, including Vilgefortz, Artaud Terranova and Francesca Findabair. After beginning their trial in Garstang, Philippa and Tissaia de Vries got into an argument about the motives of the situation, which led to the latter suddenly removing the magic barrier around the island. This led to a slaughter between mages, Scoia'tael, and Redanian soldiers, and the unofficial end of the Brotherhood.
Trivia
The Isle of Thanet is a peninsula in Kent, England. It was previously an island, having been gradually connected to the mainland between the 12th and 16th centuries.
Gallery
The Island with each building describedThanedd Island as envisioned in Gwent: The Witcher Card GameIn Netflix's The Witcher