The Witcher Battle Arena
The Witcher Battle Arena was a free-to-play multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) video game developed by Fuero Games and published by CD PROJEKT RED. The game featured 6-player battles, where participants had to capture and hold three conquest points or fight in team deathmatch.
The game was released in Q4 2014 for iOS, Android, with a release later in the year for Windows Phone and Windows tablet.
On 31 December 2015, The Witcher Battle Arena ceased to be available for download and its servers were shut down.
Official Statement
The Witcher Battle Arena is a fast, fun and accessible MOBA game based in the Witcher universe. Designed with mobile devices in mind, Battle Arena combines great accessibility and a balanced learning curve with complex tactics and a limitless array of skill-based strategies gamers can deploy during each battle. Designed with fairness in mind, the game features no pay-to-win elements and allows players to unlock every piece of in-game content entirely via gameplay.
In the Arena, six heroes battle it out to the death, trying to capture and hold three conquest points in short, intense and action-packed skirmishes. The intuitive system of character progression allows you to create player-tailored character builds and unique item configurations to surprise your friends and stagger your foes. Become legendary characters such as the witcher Letho of Gulet, dwarven adventurer Zoltan Chivay or the mighty sorceress Philippa Eilhart and use their diverse skills to gain the advantage and crush those foolish enough to cross your path.
System requirements

Android
Minimum System Requirements:
CPU dual core 2x 1.0
1 GB RAM
Adreno 220
Mali 400
600 MB free disk space
Example devices:
Galaxy S3
Nexus 7 (2012)
Nexus 10
HTC One S
Galaxy Tab 3 8"
Galaxy Tab 4 8"
Galaxy Tab Note 10.1"
Galaxy Tab Note 8"
Recommended System Requirements
Tegra K1
Adreno 420
Mali T760
 >= 2GB RAM
700 MB free disk space
Example devices:
Nvidia Shield
Nvidia Shield Tab
Nexus 9
Nexus 6
Amazon Fire Phone
Xiaomi Mi Pad
Samsung Galaxy S5 PLUS
Motorola Droid Turbo
The game will work on current and previous generation devices from most major manufacturers.
iOS
Minimum System Requirements:
iPhone 5 and above
iPad 3 and above
iPad Mini 2 and above
The game is NOT supported on earlier generations or iPod Touch.
Locations
Berserker shrine
Korath desert
Mahakam mines
Nilfgaard arena
Characters
Ciri
Eithne
Eredin
Geralt of Rivia
Golem
Iorveth
Letho
The Operator
Philippa Eilhart
Saskia
Succubus
Triss Merigold
Troll
Vabjorn
Yennefer
Zoltan Chivay
Notes
If you redeemed the code issued in physical copies of The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, you could permanently unlock the Geralt of Rivia character and his sword's skin, Voice of Kaer Morhen.
Videos
The Witcher Battle Arena - Teaser TrailerThe Witcher Battle Arena - Launch TrailerThe Witcher Battle Arena - Debut Gameplay TrailerThe Witcher Battle Arena - TutorialThe Witcher Battle Arena - Tutorial pt. 2 SKILLSThe Witcher Battle Arena - Tutorial pt. 3 ITEMS
Gallery

References
↑ The Witcher Battle Arena launches in Canada!
↑ The Witcher Battle Arena is no longer supported
↑ The Witcher Battle Arena announced!
↑ 4.0 4.1 TWBA system requirements