The Witcher 3 cut content
Throughout the development of The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, as well as its expansions, various parts of the game were removed, some early on and some so late into development that their files were not pulled from the final game. This page is to help list all such material.
Items
Image
Name
Description
Aeramas' Shop: the Best Goods Around!
This was meant to direct Geralt to the Gildorf merchant, where he can buy the lizard figurine for the secondary quest Of Dairy and Darkness, instead of the finalised decision for the player to discover the shop naturally.
n/a
Alchemy for Household Dilemmas, Vol. 3
This book was meant to be found in the library during the secondary quest The Tower Outta Nowheres, where it can still be examined and Geralt has a unique line for it, but it cannot be picked up.
Alghoul trophy
A trophy with unknown stats.
Ancient monster bone
This can still technically be found on the mini-peninsula southwest of the Mill signpost on the winter White Orchard map, if one manages to clip out of the reduced map borders during the Empress version of the epilogue quest, Something Ends, Something Begins. It's purpose and related quest is unknown.
Announcement: Faroe Boat Races
These notice board postings were meant to promote boat racing, which was cut from the final release of the game.
Announcement: Kaer Trolde Boat Races
Announcement: The Novigrad Regatta
Announcement: The Oxenfurt Regatta
Anth
This is a silver sword cut from the game.
n/a
Applied Golemancy
This book was meant to be found in the library during the secondary quest The Tower Outta Nowheres, where it can still be examined and Geralt has a unique line for it, but it cannot be picked up.
n/a
Arachnomorphs: Facts and Myths
In the Hearts of Stone expansion, this book was meant to provide the bestiary entry for arachnomorphs.
Assire var Anahid's necklace
This Geralt can examine in the secret room at Caesar Bilzen's house, during the secondary quest A Dangerous Game. It was at some point though intended to be lootable.
n/a
Ballad of Bran the Conqueror
This book can be potentially found in Arnvald's room during the secondary quest King's Gambit, in the event that Arnvald dies, though it is not lootable.
Baron's dagger
Related to the main quest Family Matters though its original purpose is unknown.
 
Bear pheromones
This was meant as a potion to prevent bears from attacking.
n/a
Beledal: The True Story of a Poultry-Raising Genius
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this book likely related to the secondary quest Big Game Hunter.
Bell pepper
This was most likely meant as a quest item as it was never implemented in game, and probably intended for the deleted scene during the main quest Va Fail, Elaine, where Yennefer asks Geralt or Vesemir to cook for her. If she asked Geralt, she'll mention "pepper" as an ingredient in an omelette and if successful, he'll produce an omelette that has red food in it, most likely a bell pepper.
Bill of exchange
Despite being unobtainable without console commands, the item is fully functional and, if present in the inventory, an extra dialogue option with Vimme Vivaldi will be available: "Got a bill of exchange to redeem." When chosen, Geralt has a short line saying almost exactly the same thing, to which Vivaldi replies with "I'll need a spell to verify that the issuer's credit worthy. But it shouldn't take long." 100 are then received.
Blade of Ys
This is a silver sword cut from the game.
Bleidd
This is a silver sword cut from the game. It is likely an early version of a Wolf School Gear sword, and at some point was supposed to be received (along with Devine) instead of the Rose of Shaerrawed during the main quest The Battle of Kaer Morhen if one chooses to clear the armory.
Bootblack's flyer
In the Blood and Wine expansion, it's possible that this was originally intended as a way to find the bootblack during the main quest Where Children Toil, Toys Waste Away.
Bread
While the normal food version exists, this version with a different item ID was part of a deleted phase of the main quest No Place Like Home, where Geralt was supposed to raid the kitchen and bring some food back to the table - something that is now only mentioned in dialogue right before Eskel disappears, having gone for more vodka because Geralt already went for food earlier. He could bring this, cheese, and possibly sausages.
Breath of the North
This is a silver sword cut from the game.
Bucket and rag
During the main quest Va Fail, Elaine, this was supposed to be manually retrieved when Uma vomits, before the cutscene where Geralt and Eskel are cleaning up the mess.
Cage key
This version of the cage key was part of otherwise redesigned content, where the herbalist at Kvalheim Isle (south from Blandare) was originally caged like the other person(s) in distress throughout the game.
Camerlengo's report on the liquidation of Loth Halfbreed's hanse
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this document is supposed to appear on the shelves with the other reports at The Ducal Camerlengo, after clearing Loth Halfbreed's hanse base at Tulasens Caves. However, due to a bug it doesn't spawn during gameplay and can't even be obtained through console commands, only via mods.
Cheese
While the normal food version exists, this version with a different item ID was part of a deleted phase of the main quest No Place Like Home, where Geralt was supposed to raid the kitchen and bring some food back to the table - something that is now only mentioned in dialogue right before Eskel disappears, having gone for more vodka because Geralt already went for food earlier. He could bring this, bread, and possibly sausages.
Clan Hindar sword
This is a steel sword cut from the game.
Crayfish chowder
Associated with the main quest The Beast of Toussaint in the Blood and Wine expansion, it was originally higher-than-usual quality food.
Crumpled note
It is supposed to be found along with a treasure containing diagram: Tracker's gauntlets somewhere on Bald Mountain. However, the container that has it doesn't appear during gameplay. As its contents refer to a non-existent griffin nearby, as well as rats being the most dangerous thing, it was likely related to the plague questline that was cut from the game.
Cultist's notes - part 1
Related to the scrapped plague questline, this document can be found on the body at the Place of Power marker between the Sawmill and Mill in White Orchard, only when clipping out of the reduced world borders during the Empress version of the Something Ends, Something Begins quest.
Cultist's notes - part 2
Related to the scrapped plague questline, this document can be found on a table at the bandit camp marker north of the Sawmill in White Orchard, only when clipping out of the reduced world borders during the Empress version of the Something Ends, Something Begins quest.
Damaged eyes
This is associated with the secondary quest Redania's Most Wanted and suggests that there was something intended to at least find more about Philippa Eilhart's attempts to restore her eyes. However, it can't be found during gameplay and, even if obtained through console commands, just like the agate it doesn't seem to be active in any way.
Damaged journal
In the Hearts of Stone expansion, it is supposed to be found at the guarded treasure marker at Hunter's Cottage, where a bear is prowling around. However, it seems that it doesn't appear due to colliding loot container names for the corpse there and the chest inside the hut.
Delicate key
This was supposed to unlock the chest for the treasure hunt quest Lost Goods, but for unknown reasons is unused and the chest isn't locked.
De Vries' extract
There isn't much on file about this. As De Vries' Extract was a potion in the first game, it's possible this was meant to have a similar effect to allow Geralt to spot concealed enemies.
Diagram: Greater Glyph of Infusion
This is needed to craft Greater Glyph of Infusions (also a cut content item).
Diagram: Greater runestone
This is needed to craft greater runestones (also a cut content item).
n/a
Diary
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this book was likely supposed to be found at the La Compassion Orphanage.
Dimeritium chains
Like the similarly named "dimeritium shackles", this junk item was likely meant to appear during content related to the witch hunts.
Dirt-smeared letter
This is related to a battle between Clan Drummond and pirates that they were intended to have a conflict with. Data for almost all of it is still in the game files, largely unused but a few things can still be seen during gameplay - a poster with a "call to arms" type of message can still be seen in Holmstein, Drummond guards appear at the bandit camp to the northeast after it is cleared, and there are two drakkars on the nearby shore - all remnants from the same larger event or quest.
Discarded letter
This was supposed to be found in the Oxenfurt sewers during the main quest The Great Escape, but was never put in any container there.
n/a
Doppler Chappelle gwent card
This was to be a neutral card.
n/a
Elder Speech Phrasebook
While these book's source is unknown, their contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
n/a
Elder Speech Pocket Dictionary
Faroe blade
The purchasable version of this sword is obtainable, and this craftable version exists in the game files, but the diagram for it doesn't, effectively making it cut content that can only be obtained through console commands.
Fisherman's notes
This book is associated with the treasure hunt quest A Costly Mistake, and likely was intended to appear instead of the smuggler's notes at its start, but only if the nearby abandoned site has already been liberated from the pirates. Two different letters found at the hut there alternate based on the same event - pirate's version correlating to the smuggler's notes, and fisherman's version correlating to this one.
Fridebjorg the Bloody
This book was supposed to be found at Kaer Gelen, and along with a highwayman's letter is linked to an encounter with a "Blood Countess" (Fridebjorg herself) that is likely the katakan at the top level there.
Fundaments of Field Surgery
While associated with the main quest Dead Man's Party in the Hearts of Stone expansion, it appears to be just a fluff book, likely meant to be found at Shani's clinic. However, whether due to oversight or intentionally, it was never placed anywhere and doesn't appear during gameplay.
Gildorf sword
The purchasable version of this sword is obtainable, and this craftable version exists in the game files, but the diagram for it doesn't, effectively making it cut content that can only be obtained through console commands.
Glyph of Infusion
This presumably was originally intended to be used to craft mid-tier runestones.
n/a
Gratulatory letter
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this document was likely intended to be found somewhere near Gélenser Farm, the only location well-known for growing radishes as mentioned in its contents.
Greater foglet mutagen
There's plenty of room for speculation about its originally intended source monster, but instead of something being cut "last minute" it may simply be a remnant of the concept of "greater" monster variations from The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings, likely discarded much earlier in development.
Greater Glyph of Infusion
This presumably was originally intended to be used to craft high-tier glyphs.
Greater runestone
This presumably was originally intended to be used to craft high-tier runestones.
Guard captain's notes
This is the 4th of 7 books collectively known as "journals from Urskar", detailing what led to Undvik's destruction. Small bits from that still remain in dialogues during the secondary quest The Lord of Undvik, but the overall story and a lot of other content related to the island have been removed from the game.
n/a
Henselt gwent card
Was to be part of the Northern Realms deck and had concept art.
Highwayman's letter
This document was supposed to be found at Kaer Gelen, and along with Fridebjorg the Bloody is linked to an encounter with a "Blood Countess" that is likely the katakan at the top level there.
Highwayman's notes
This version is supposed to be dropped by the leader of the bandit's camp (east of Oreton), but whether intentionally or due to a bug, he only drops the bandits' key to release a merchant from Claywich.
n/a
History of the Theater of Novigrad
This book's contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition.
n/a
How to Live and Die Happily
This book was meant to be found in the library during the secondary quest The Tower Outta Nowheres. Its contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
Humbert Reardon's diary
During the secondary quest The Fall of the House of Reardon, this book was supposed to be found behind the desk inside the northwestern house at the estate, where a book can be seen on the floor, but whether intentionally or due to a bug the loot container doesn't appear.
Inexpertly written letter
This document was supposed to be found in the bandit camp northwest of Cackler Bridge in White Orchard, in the treasure chest for Dirty Funds or on top of it. Some data in the game files suggests that it should appear there if the camp is empty, which however is never the case as the Nilfgaardian Army will occupy the camp after it is cleared of deserters.
Information from SD
Obviously written by Sigismund Dijkstra, this document is somehow linked to the main quest Get Junior. Its cryptic nature leaves plenty of room for speculation, but it's unclear if it's just another fluff note or part of something more significant.
Intelligence report about Ciri
This document appears to be the basis of what Yennefer summarises to Geralt during the main quest Imperial Audience. Thus it likely should've appeared in the same Royal Palace room, but there are no clues as to whether it was intentionally removed or if it was never placed due to oversight.
n/a
Intersections and Geomantic Lines
This book was meant to be found in the library during the secondary quest The Tower Outta Nowheres, where it can still be examined and Geralt has a unique line for it, but it cannot be picked up.
Journal
This is the 2nd of 7 books collectively known as "journals from Urskar", detailing what led to Undvik's destruction. Small bits from that still remain in dialogues during the secondary quest The Lord of Undvik, but the overall story and a lot of other content related to the island have been removed from the game.
Journal of a Thief, Part I
Related to the secondary quest A Hallowed Horn, this document can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't seem to be found anywhere during gameplay.
Key to elven necropolis
It is unknown what this key was supposed to unlock and there are no elven ruins with conventionally locked doors present in released versions of the game. However, its item ID suggests a link with the main quest Wandering in the Dark and thus possibly the ruins that Geralt and Keira Metz explore together. Within that is of course also the door unlocked via a statues puzzle during the secondary quest Magic Lamp, behind which is Lara Dorren's sepulcher and a crypt-like area guarded by a golem - a plausible possibility for something referred to as a necropolis. In that general area (but above ground) are also some elven ruins, speculated to be the "elven burial ground whereabout Midcopse" that some peasants often mention around Geralt.
Key to pellar's basement
It is unknown what this key was supposed to unlock and there is no basement even remotely close to any of the Pellar's possible locations, locked or not. Even more oddly, its item ID suggests a link with the secondary quest Return to Crookback Bog, which he has no involvement in. The most logical conjecture would be that it had been planned at some point for the Pellar to at least attempt to cure Anna Strenger.
Key to prisoners' cage
This appears to be an older version of the slavers' key currently used to free Mulbrydale's swordsmith at Swamp Bint Harbor. It was likely replaced in a change where he was moved from a regular person(s) in distress cage to the current in-building structure. A different version of the unsent letter found there also exists in the game files, labeled "Slavers' notes" (ID: lw_gr13_poppy_slaver_note), but has empty contents.
Key to treasure chamber
This was intended as part of the unmarked secondary quest Yustianna Disturbed, possibly dropped by one of the bandits. Evidently, there was supposed to be a locked chamber in Yustianna's Grotto that this key would open. The highwaymen's journal found there is also technically defined as a quest item, and it's likely that the two were meant as components of a treasure hunt quest.
Ladies of the Night
This book was likely cut from the Blood and Wine expansion because the Bruxa of Corvo Bianco is encountered early during the first main quest, The Beast of Toussaint, in which instance entries for both her and regular bruxae are automatically obtained. In fact, the quest is designed in such a way that reading the entry for regular bruxae (instead of the "quest boss" variation) completes an objective.
Ledger
This book was intended to be part of the secondary quest Of Swords and Dumplings, most likely as a clue in a plan to sneak into Ernst van Hoorn's warehouse instead of conveniently making the guard go away. The game files also contain an unused "warehouse indoor key" tied to the quest, and on the adjoined building behind the (now single) warehouse there are still climbable ledges and scaffolding leading to blocked-off entrances - either the way to sneak in, or warehouse B mentioned in the contents.
Leshen's amulet
The item exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't appear during gameplay. While its specific purpose is unknown, it is obviously related to the Woodland Spirit.
Letter found on the woodcarver's body
This is the letter made of human skin, which Eustace the corpse collector found on Fabian Meyer's corpse during the secondary quest Carnal Sins. It exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but whether due to a bug or intentionally, doesn't appear during gameplay.
n/a
Letter from Artorius Vigo
This document in the Blood and Wine expansion is likely connected to the main quest Beyond Hill and Dale... and its contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
Letter from Dandelion
This document exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but it doesn't appear during gameplay. Its item ID suggests that it was related to the main quest Beyond Hill and Dale..
Letter from Keira
In an under development iteration of the secondary quest A Towerful of Mice, the story of the tower on Fyke Isle is told to Geralt by the Pellar, who suggests that Geralt should seek Keira Metz for help in lifting the curse off the island, but also says that Keira has gone in hiding after witch hunters arrived in Velen and he doesn't know where she is. Geralt then decides to look for clues in her last known home, where this letter is found.
Letter from Olgierd von Everec
In the Hearts of Stone expansion, this is the document that Geralt picks up and reads before facing Iris' final nightmare. However, under normal circumstances it's never added to one's inventory and it can only be obtained through console commands. Additionally, while the journal entry is present in the game files, the item is simply missing a flag to make it readable.
Letter from the Chancellery of His Most Gracious Majesty, Radovid the Fifth of Redania
In the Hearts of Stone expansion, this document was supposed to be found during the treasure hunt quest The Royal Air Force, but for unknown reasons doesn't appear during gameplay.
Letter to Palmerin
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this letter was supposed to be found (similarly to many others related to tournament participants) somewhere on the Tourney Grounds, possibly at the shooting range tent where Geralt and Palmerin talk, but it doesn't appear during gameplay and can only be obtained through console commands.
Letter to the druid Artis
This is the document found by Geralt on the remains of Artis at Fornhala, if he decides to help Hjalmar during the secondary quest King's Gambit. However, it never appears in the inventory and can only be obtained through console commands.
Letter to the ealdorman of Fox Hollow
This document in the Blood and Wine expansion somehow related to Fox Hollow, and very likely to treasure hunt quest The Curse of Carnarvon as well. It exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but for unknown reasons doesn't appear during gameplay.
n/a
Letter with a weight attached
This document's contents in the Blood and Wine expansion are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition, but was obviously intended to be found around Longlocks' tower in the Land of a Thousand Fables, whether on the prince's corpse or possibly the waters nearby.
n/a
Letter written on pigskin
This document's contents in the Blood and Wine expansion are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition.
M. Urlich's orders
In the Hearts of Stone expansion, this document was likely intended to be dropped by one of the Fallen Knights who captured Master Topical, but for unknown reasons doesn't appear during gameplay.
Manuscript page: Bear pheromones
Both the formula and potion and exist in the game files and are fully functional, but don't appear during gameplay and cannot be obtained without the use of console commands or mods.
Manuscript page: Nekker pheromones
Both the formula and potion and exist in the game files and are fully functional, but don't appear during gameplay and cannot be obtained without the use of console commands or mods.
Massive ring
Its item ID suggests that it, along with a silver seaweed ring, should've been part of the secondary quest Monster Slayer, though its purpose is unknown.
n/a
Mechanism Start-Up Information
Its contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item. Only the contents of the journal entry are actually in the game files, and the title is conjectured from the first line. The way it is written makes this book possibly related to the secondary quest The Tower Outta Nowheres, from which items such as gold token and multiple versions of golem hearts, including a "charged one", have indeed also been cut. While highly speculative, the pun where "GOG" currently stands for Gottfried's Omni-opening Grimoire may've originally been something like "Golem operating guide" as the title of this book.
n/a
Membership Patronage from the Valaborda Family
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this items contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition. It is related to another cut content book, The Belhaven School of Drama, and was likely meant as an advertising leaflet for the theater school in question.
Memoirs
This is the 3rd of 7 books collectively known as "journals from Urskar", detailing what led to Undvik's destruction. Small bits from that still remain in dialogues during the secondary quest The Lord of Undvik, but the overall story and a lot of other content related to the island have been removed from the game.
n/a
Memoirs of a veteran of the Northern Army
This books contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition.
Message from Hubert Rejk
During the secondary quest Carnal Sins, this message is effectively delivered in spoken form to Geralt by a guard, which suggests that this item was simply cut. However, with multiple other documents during this quest missing for ambiguous reasons, it's possible that it is only not appearing because of a bug.
Meteorite plate
It exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't appear during gameplay.
Monster Encounters of the Third Kind
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this book exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't appear during gameplay. When read, it provides the full bestiary entry for spriggans.
Murderer's note
This is the note found by Geralt on Patricia Vegelbud's corpse during the secondary quest Carnal Sins. It exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but whether due to a bug or intentionally, doesn't appear during gameplay
Mutagen liquid
There is no mention of what these were meant for. As there is also an "empty" version, it's possible they had something to do with collecting mutagens or were in place before mutagens were decided on by the development team.
Mutagen liquid red
Mutagen liquid blue
Mutagen liquid neutral
 
Mutagen liquid empty
Both of these icons were labeled empty, and possibly meant as a stand-in empty mutagen bottle.
Mutagen potion empty
This one is very similar to the above, but was labeled slightly different. It was possibly meant to act like the others or as a stand-in for empty potion bottles.
Nathaniel's sermon
Related to the secondary quest Carnal Sins, there's evidence in the game files of a second sermon by Nathaniel Pastodi as well, but it's only a container named after it and the item doesn't exist.
Nekker pheromones
This cut potion stops nekkers from being hostile. The effect only works on regular nekkers and not nekker warriors. The potion and its formula exist in the game files and are fully functional, but don't appear during gameplay and cannot be obtained without the use of console commands or mods.
Note
While its appearance is that of a notice board posting, data in the game files suggests that it was supposed to be found in the bandit camp northwest of Cackler Bridge in White Orchard, or is otherwise related to it.
Notebook with wooden cover
This book in the Blood and Wine expansion exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't seem to appear during gameplay. However, it is associated with Mont Crane Castle and thus likely intended to appear in its vicinity.
Notes
This book was originally intended to be found in Hendrik's hidden basement during the main quest The Nilfgaardian Connection, in the chest that now only contains crowns, and provided instructions on a series of turns to be performed on the candlestick that opens the secret compartment. It was likely cut because the puzzle simply felt like a needless complication and annoyance.
Notes (5th journal from Urskar)
These are the 5th and 7th of 7 books collectively known as "journals from Urskar", detailing what led to Undvik's destruction. Small bits from that still remain in dialogues during the secondary quest The Lord of Undvik, but the overall story and a lot of other content related to the island have been removed from the game.
Notes (7th journal from Urskar)
Notes by the First Bailiff to the Hanse of Filibert Fourfingers
This document in the Blood and Wine expansion exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't seem to appear during gameplay. However, it is associated with Mont Crane Castle and thus likely intended to appear in its vicinity.
Notes from Urskar
This is the 1st of 7 books collectively known as "journals from Urskar", detailing what led to Undvik's destruction. Small bits from that still remain in dialogues during the secondary quest The Lord of Undvik, but the overall story and a lot of other content related to the island have been removed from the game.
n/a
Notes of a radish grower
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this documents contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition. It was likely intended to be found somewhere near Gélenser Farm, the only location well-known for growing radishes.
Notice! Delay affecting orders placed with Anselm!
This notice board posting, relating to the unmarked secondary quest Caravan Attack, exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't seem to be found during gameplay.
n/a
Novigrad Theater Review
This document's contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition. A related cut content book also exists in the game files as "History of the Theater of Novigrad".
Old necklace
Its purpose is unknown, although its item ID suggests that it is related to the secondary quest Forefathers' Eve.
Old urn
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this item somehow once related to the main quest La Cage au Fou.
Omelet for Yennefer
If Yennefer is romantically involved with Geralt during the main quest Va Fail, Elaine, she would ask him to prepare a meal for her and this is one of the possible options for it. She would specifically ask for scrambled eggs, or if you wish to spoil her, an omelet made with onions, mushrooms, "peppers", and naturally eggs. As long as those 4 ingredients are used, this is the meal that Geralt would prepare and she would be pleased. The other three meal options are scrambled eggs, a rather unappetizing meal, and omelet à la Geralt of Rivia.
Omelet à la Geralt of Rivia
If Yennefer is romantically involved with Geralt during the main quest Va Fail, Elaine, she would ask him to prepare a meal for her and this is one of the possible options for it. It has been claimed that 16+ food items on top of egg, onion and black pepper are required to get this, but as of Patch 4.04 that doesn't seem to work, so it's possible that a specific yet unknown ingredient is required. Regardless, when presented with it, Yennefer will respond with a rather underwhelming "Not quite what I asked for... But it looks appetizing enough."but the dialogue after that makes it clear that she meant that in a rather pleasantly surprised manner, only she looks very tired while delivering the line. The other three meal options are the scrambled eggs, a rather unappetizing meal, and an omelet for Yennefer.
On the Slaying of Bloodslurpers
This book in the Blood and Wine expansion is likely associated with the main quest Wine is Sacred, as during its start Damien de la Tour basically quotes excerpts from it. However, for unknown reasons it has been cut from the game and cannot be obtained by normal means.
Orders
This document was supposed to be found on a Nilfgaardian soldier's corpse at either the Ferry Station or Calveit Watchtower, before the area is liberated. There are corpses in both places using the exact loot container template that is supposed to have this, but whether due to a bug or oversight only the template's appearance is used.
Painite crystal
Similarly to the jade, it was supposed to be delivered to the runewright in order to unlock the second level of enchanting. This was part of an entire additional quest, titled "Enchanting: Mastery Demands Sacrifice".
The quest itself was likely removed as it is rather trivial. After paying 10,000 to the runewright, he would explain that he also needs painite and that it can't be found in these lands, so Geralt sets out to search for merchants in Novigrad who may've imported the crystal, with three options available:
Merchant in the market near Tretogor Gate
Merchant in the Fish Market
Merchant in the shop in Gildorf
Painite crystal would then be randomly added to one of those merchants' inventories and Geralt simply needs to buy it and return to the runewright, completing the quest. There are no additional rewards for it.
n/a
Paul Francisque's letter
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this document's contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition. It was likely intended to be found at Ardaiso Quarry, or another location associated with the Big Feet to Fill quest.
Pheromone bomb
The game files also contain a different unique inventory icon for it than the one it appears with if obtained, and it is categorized as a quest item one, suggesting that it had a special purpose rather than generic usage. Despite being listed as a bomb, it appears in the inventory under the "Weapons" tab rather than the "Bombs" tab. Pheromone bombs may also be equipped in a pocket slot, however, they cannot be thrown.
n/a
Pirate's letter.
This document's contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
Pirate's notes
This document was intended to be found at the roadside bandit camp north-northeast of the Coast of Wrecks signpost in eastern Velen, whether on one of the corpses laying around or to be dropped by one of the deserters there. It's unclear if it has been intentionally removed or wasn't included due to oversight.
Prayers to the Eternal Fire
This book should've been available and very common as random loot, as well as sold by the books merchant in Hierarch Square. However, a simple typo in the game files (referencing "Armor maintenancet" instead of its correct item ID) prevents it from appearing during normal gameplay, and it can only be obtained through console commands.
Quartermaster's Orders
This document was likely intended to be a quest item, obviously related to Contract: Patrol Gone Missing. However, it's been removed for unknown reasons and doesn't appear during gameplay, though still in the game files and can be obtained through console commands.
Rather unappetizing meal
f Yennefer is romantically involved with Geralt during the main quest Va Fail, Elaine, she would ask him to prepare a meal for her and this is one of the possible options for it. She would specifically ask for scrambled eggs or an omelete, and if no eggs were used to cook it, this is the meal that Geralt would prepare. Upon receiving it Yennefer would be baffled, asking "What... What is this?", to which the witcher replies with "My own original recipe... It ain't pretty, but it's edible. I think." The other three meal options are the scrambled eggs, an omelet for Yennefer and omelet à la Geralt of Rivia.
Recipe
This document was supposed to be found in a chest at the cannibals' bandit camp east of Condyle, along with diagram: Novigrad longsword and some diamond dust. However, whether due to oversight or intentionally, the chest in question doesn't appear during gameplay.
Red meteorite steel sword
This steel sword was cut from the game.
Refusal letter
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this document was supposed to be found during the main quest The Man from Cintra, in exactly the same place as the fragment of the script of a stage play, possibly replacing it depending on a yet unknown condition. However, it appears to be completely disabled.
Report Number 1527
This book is still present in the game files, but only obtainable through console commands.
Sail
This was supposed to be one of the things given to Octo during the secondary quest The Lord of Undvik, so he can complete building the giant's boat. A mission objective related to it can still be triggered and marked as complete without having the item.
Sausages
It was somehow associated with the main quest Ugly Baby, which by virtue of being an "umbrella" quest makes two possible purposes plausible.
The first is a scene during the No Place Like Home quest, where Geralt was supposed to raid the kitchen and bring some food back to the table - something that is now only mentioned in dialogue right before Eskel disappears, having gone for more vodka because Geralt already went for food earlier (and brought bread and cheese, which can be seen on the table). This is a more plausible option because of the items order of appearance in the game files, as well as the item description.
The second option is that it was supposed to be a special ingredient for making omelet à la Geralt of Rivia during a cut cooking phase of Va Fail, Elaine. Unfortunately, this doesn't actually work there, even though that part of the quest can be re-enabled via console commands or mods.
Save my chickens!
This notice board posting relating to the secondary quest Empty Coop exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't seem to be found during gameplay.
Scrambled eggs
If Yennefer is romantically involved with Geralt during the main quest Va Fail, Elaine, she would ask him to prepare a meal for her and this is one of the possible options for it. As long as an egg is used without any of the other 3 ingredients required for an omelet, this is the meal that Geralt would prepare and Yennefer would be rather disappointed, replying with "Scrambled eggs, after all." The other three meal options are a rather unappetizing meal, omelet for Yennefer and omelet à la Geralt of Rivia.
n/a
Search Report
In the Blood and Wine expansion, this documents contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition. The theme is similar to that of the book Case: One-Armed Adalard and thus it may've been part of content related to it.
Shovel
This was to be a secondary weapon in the Hearts of Stone expansion that was later cut from the game.
n/a
Siegfried de Löwe's chronicle
In the Hearts of Stone expansion, this book's contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition. It looks like it was supposed to appear instead of the orders for Ernst Goltz at Zuetzer Castle.
Silver seaweed ring
Its item ID suggests that it, along with a massive ring, should've been part of the secondary quest Monster Slayer, but its purpose is unknown.
Silverton
The crafted version of this sword exists in the game files, but the diagram for it doesn't, effectively making it cut content that can only be obtained through console commands.
Sketch of the Heart of Toussaint
This document in the Blood and Wine expansion is shown by Orianna to Geralt and Anna Henrietta during the main quest The Man from Cintra. However, it's never actually added to the inventory and can only be obtained through console commands.
Soured milk
This potion exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but its purpose and originally intended effects are unknown, as it wasn't fully implemented. There is no formula for creating it present in the game files. It is likely that it was meant to be used during a quest, but it appears in the regular "Potions" inventory tab. If consumed, it will trigger the same effect as Black Blood (literally pointing to the same effect definition) and has the same status icon in the HUD, though whether it applies to vampires or other types of enemies has not been tested.
Spyglass
This item exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't appear during gameplay and there are no visible clues about its purpose. However, it was obviously intended to be found during Contract: Patrol Gone Missing.
Strange note
This document is supposed to be found in the chest at the bandit camp between the Refugees' Camp and Midcopse, but whether intentionally or due to a bug, it doesn't appear. The camp itself is supposed to have some special "ambush" mechanics, but those can't be observed either.
n/a
Sus Scrofa Nordlinga, or A Portrayal of Boars
In the Hearts of Stone expansion, this book provides the full bestiary entry for wild boars, including a last paragraph in it that cannot be obtained by killing the creature. Its contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
n/a
Tale of the Old Bear
While these book's source is unknown, their contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
n/a
Tattered notes
While these book in the Blood and Wine expansion's source is unknown, their contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition. It would've been found during Scavenger Hunt: Grandmaster Wolven Gear, and it appears to be an earlier version of George Herbert's letter.
Temerian officer's journal
It is related to the treasure hunt quest Temerian Valuables, and it seems logical that it should've been found along with the Temerian lily key at the hidden treasure marker west of the White Orchard Mill, or close to it. However, in the game files it is defined inside a different loot container, which can't be found during gameplay.
Temple key
It exists in the game files and can be obtained through console commands, but doesn't seem to appear during gameplay and its purpose is unknown, although it is somehow related to the secondary quest In Wolf's Clothing.
The Adversary (crafted)
This crafted version of this sword exists in the game files, but the diagram for it doesn't, effectively making it cut content that can only be obtained through console commands.
n/a
The Belhaven School of Drama
This document in the Blood and Wine expansion's contents are still present in the game files, but aren't attached to an inventory item definition. What looks like an advertising leaflet for the described school, also exists in the game files, as "Membership Patronage from the Valaborda Family".
n/a
The First War against Nilfgaard
This book's contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
n/a
The Great Migration
This book's contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
n/a
The Heart of the Wilds
This book, when read, provides bestiary entries for leshens and sylvans, as well as the formula for leshen decoction and the formula for ancient leshen decoction. It should be available as random loot, but due to a randomization bug never appears during gameplay, and can only be obtained through console commands.
n/a
The Northern Wars, Volume I
This book's contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
n/a
The Northern Wars, Volume II
This book's contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
n/a
The Second War against Nilfgaard
This book's contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
Tiara
This potion from The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings was also set to appear in the third game, but was cut during development. It had the icon currently used by Killer Whale, and all three of its variations (basic, enhanced and superior, as customary for the third game) had the effect: "Limits loss of Stamina when parrying at the expense of damage dealt.", presumably with varying amounts of percentage stamina loss and/or damage
To Geralt of Rivia
This document in the Blood and Wine expansion was originally meant appear on The Gran'place's notice board as a way to direct the player towards the messenger boy for the secondary quest Turn and Face the Strange. It is still in the game files, but can't be obtained without the use of console commands or mods. Instead, the courier can simply approach Geralt at multiple squares around Hauteville instead of the (unknown) Ludovic Square.
Vattier de Rideaux's dagger
This is the dagger belonging to Vattier de Rideaux, which Geralt can examine in the secret room at Caesar Bilzen's house during the secondary quest A Dangerous Game. It was at some point intended to be a lootable junk item and still exists in the game files but, because of the single quote character in its item ID, it cannot be obtained even through console commands. In its place, two ornate swords appear instead.
Vodka glass
This quest item in the Hearts of Stone expansion was to be found in the Painted World during the main quest Scenes From a Marriage, possibly as part of an additional memory.
Vrihedd Brigade sword (crafted)
The crafted version of this sword exists in the game files, but the diagram for it doesn't, effectively making it cut content that can only be obtained through console commands.
Warrior's notes
This is the 6th of 7 books collectively known as "journals from Urskar", detailing what led to Undvik's destruction. Small bits from that still remain in dialogues during The Lord of Undvik secondary quest, but the overall story and a lot of other content related to the island have been removed from the game.
n/a
Who's Who Among Koviri Sorcerers
This book was meant to be found in the library during the secondary quest The Tower Outta Nowheres, where it can still be examined and Geralt has a unique line for it, but it cannot be picked up. Its contents are still present in the game files, but were never attached to an inventory item definition.
Whoreson Junior's letter to Radovid
This document is obviously related to the Get Junior main quest, though its purpose and the reasons why it was removed are unknown.
Wight stomach
This alchemy ingredient from the Blood and Wine expansion was obviously intended to be dropped by wights but, whether due to oversight or intentionally, was not added to their list of drops.
Wild Hunt warrior's sword - enhanced (relic)
As suggested by its item ID, this steel sword was likely replaced by Hav'caaren. Perhaps not as strange for an item that didn't make the final cut, but it also cannot be dismantled.
Wild Hunt warrior's sword - enhanced (basic)
This version of the sword was supposed to be dropped by Nithral, during the secondary quest Wandering in the Dark.
Wild Hunt warrior's sword - mastercrafted
This steel sword was supposed to be dropped by "late game" Wild Hunt warriors.
Wild Hunt warrior's sword - superior
This steel sword was supposed to be dropped by Wild Hunt warriors during the main quest The Battle of Kaer Morhen.
Witch hunter gwent card
This was supposed to be a gwent card and part of the Northern Realms deck.
Witch hunter's notes
This document was presumably part of cut content where the witch hunters reach Velen, similarly to a letter from Keira, and should've appeared somewhere in the Crow's Perch region. However, it is unknown exactly where this was supposed to be found, whether on an already dead witch hunter or one that must be killed first, and the only location associated with the "cp36" ID remaining in the game files is the forktail guarded treasure southwest of Lindenvale, where a regular Nilfgaardian soldier's corpse is seen instead.
Witch hunter's orders
Similarly to a crumpled letter, this document is supposed to appear in the sewers during the secondary quest Now or Never, on one of the two witch hunters' corpses seen shortly before encountering the katakan. However, whether due to a bug or intentionally, only one of the corpses can be interacted with, to be examined by Geralt.
Wooden amulet
It was meant to be used in the quest Family Matters, evident in part by its item ID, but additionally it is moved out of the "Quest items" inventory tab when that quest completes.
Characters
Name
Description
False Ciri
She was going to appear in the Skellige Isles under another name - "Becca". It's not clear if that was her real name or an alias. The codename Becca was later used for Cerys.
Folmar
According to a notice titled Announcement: Faroe Boat Races, he was meant to be a boat racing organizer on Faroe.
Hector Krafft Ebbing
A main character that was supposed to be one of, if not the main anthologists of the cut plague questline.
Hvitr
A child with minor mental disabilities. He was originally going to make an appearance in a deleted Skellige main quest called Thralls.
Inquisitor
He was likely later changed to Graden. He was a witch hunter who was supposed to appear in Velen. At at the end of his quest, you could chose if he lived or died.
Iorveth
A main character from The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings, he was supposed to appear in a massive questline that centered around the Nifgaardian war effort and an outbreak of the Catriona plague. He would have been part of an uneasy alliance with Roche, Ves and Thaler. This questline was cut late into development.
Iver
According to a notice titled Announcement: Kaer Trolde Boat Races, he was meant to be a boat racing organizer in Kaer Trolde.
Vincent Meis
He was also involved in the plague questline, but was cut early into production.
Quests
Description
Quest name: Missing SonLocation: White Orchard
Geralt was supposed to run into a woman looking for her son on the battlefield. If he chose to help her, she'd try to look for a shield with a specific design, but none of the bodies match. Necrophages attack and her dog suddenly appears. Afterwards, the dog suddenly runs off into the woods and she asks Geralt to get her dog back as he's all she has left. Geralt follows the dog to find a boy's corpse with a Temerian arrow in his back, leading to the conclusion he probably tried to desert and was killed by one of his own. Geralt can then tell the woman this or say the dog chased after a hare.
Most likely this quest was replaced with Missing in Action.
Quest name: No Man's LandLocation: White Orchard
Geralt is asked by a farmer named Todd to clear a field of necrophages and their nest and, once done, Todd will meet him near the field. Once the field is cleared, a different farmer named Dobb thanks him and offers a reward. Geralt can accept the reward or ask about his identity. If pressed, Geralt can choose again to accept or refuse. If he refuses, the farmer runs off. Returning to the original farmer, Todd asks what Dobb wanted and Geralt can tell him or wave it off.
Todd then talks some about the reward, stating that under the new Nilfgaardian rule, its possible for farmers to lose their land to another if other farmers pay for the work done on the land if it's beneficial. Geralt can then either confess if he took the payment, lie if he did, or tell Todd he didn't take it.
Afterwards, if Geralt lied, Dobb's body can be found later in the field near a nest and Todd has disappeared. If Geralt confessed, Todd can be found drinking in a tavern and may lead to a fistfight with Geralt. If Geralt refused Dobb's payment, he'll run into him instead in the tavern.
Quest name: FreshwaterLocation: White Orchard
Geralt can explore a fisherman's hut by a small pond. Just then he hears the sounds of a panicked young man who runs into the house and asks what Geralt is doing there. Geralt asks instead what has him spooked and the man says something about a woman coming for him. Geralt heads outside to find a noonwraith. The man then states that the water supply has become polluted by all the fighting and the Nilfgaardians are giving a reward for new sources of water and he remembered the well surrounded by abandoned huts. However, when he got there, the noonwraith appeared.
Geralt can then head out to the well and she'll appear and Geralt can drive her off for a time. Looking into the well, he sees a corpse hanging by a noose, most likely the source of the noonwraith. After fetching the skeleton out, which also had a silver bracelet with a name on it, Geralt buries the remains nearby, but it won't banish her completely. To do so, he needs to find someone who remembers the woman when she was alive.
The fisherman will point Geralt to ask around the village about the bracelet and the innkeeper there will mention the bracelet is very similar to the herbalist's. The herbalist immediately recognizes it, saying it belonged to her twin sister who disappeared years ago and Geralt will tell her where he found it and how her spirit still roams the area. The herbalist thanks him and that she'll visit the grave soon.
After a day, a wreath of immortelles will appear on the grave, allowing the village to use the well and affecting their overall health. If Geralt failed to dispel the noonwraith, the fisherman can later be found dead in his house.
Most likely this quest was replaced with Contract: Devil by the Well.
Quest name: A Friendly FreakLocation: White Orchard
When traveling through the village, some children will start calling Geralt names, like freak and weirdo. Geralt can confront them about their bigotry and they quickly come around and ask if that's a real crossbow and if it's true he has quick reflexes. They'll then ask Geralt to meet them at a specific spot, to which Geralt could agree or not.
If agreed, Geralt can meet the boys at a "secret boys club", a treehouse with some target dummies and some games set up for Geralt. For the crossbow, they'll throw things in the air for Geralt to shoot in midair. Once Geralt hits all targets, they kids will give a reward and admire Geralt's skills. For Geralt's signs, they'll give him multiple things to do with each sign, like Igni on the dummies and Axii on one of the boys. If the player was to try to use Aard or Igni on the boys, the quest would fail and the boys would run off crying.
One of the boys would then ask if he could become a witcher. Geralt can either tell him to reconsider as most initiates die horribly, making the boy cry, or tell him to wait until he's older.
Afterwards, Geralt could then be rewarded with something to give later to Uma, a bag of cookies, or something they found on the battlefield.
Additional ideas included one of the fathers showing up during the games and making racist remarks before sending the boys home so he could take care of Geralt, the boys having an actual problem they needed help with, or monsters attacking during Geralt's demonstrations.
Quest name: Until Death Do...Location: White Orchard
Two fresh corpses are found on a romantic spot overlooking the village with some orens on the ground and empty bottles nearby. Geralt can conclude the couple, Magda and Alphonse, died from a poison and realizes they were married to different people. In each of their hands is a note, most likely from their significant others, bearing them ill-will.
Geralt can also start this quest in the village after finding the missing persons posters and seeking out a lone man and a lone woman. Both are very unfriendly and direct, stating their worst halves went missing, having fled the war and taking their savings with them and both need them back. They will give some vague clues on possible areas to find them. At the spot, Geralt can find a couple pouches of coin below the overlook with IOUs from the runaway couple. On returning to the spouses, they will give a measly reward. Later on, Geralt can find the surly man and woman dating each other.
Quest name: The Thing in the AtticLocation: White Orchard
A sorcerer, dubbed Mr. B, used artefact compression on a rival sorcerer (Mr. A) so he could steal and take credit for Mr. A's life work. He brought along the statuette and Mr. A's notes to the final research site in White Orchard but got incredibly drunk at the tavern and left the items behind and they ended up in the lost and found chest. After sobering up, he decided he could finish the research himself without the notes, but he couldn't and ended up dying at the research site.
Geralt can come across the statuette and notes and following the clues, is led to one of the most powerful intersections in Temeria.The magic is so powerful here that it's fatal if Geralt doesn't take the right precautions. To successfully enter the cave, Geralt must herd nearby cats (they're drawn to magical places like intersections) into the cave to absorb some of the magic, allowing Geralt to safely enter and explore. He can find the corpse of Mr. B, who found the power he was looking for but died before he could make it out. Geralt can then take the statuette to Triss who will undo the artefact compression. Mr. A has long since forgotten everything and Triss gets him on the first boat to Kovir.
Quest name: SwamplandsLocation: White Orchard
This one has differing paths. Geralt can either come across a group of Nilfgaardians in a swamp as they fight some drowners and, after helping them, offer his expertise, stating some nests must be around OR Geralt can find some Temerian insurgents near a nest and, on seeing Geralt, ask for his help. They're trying to open an old tunnel into a nearby keep so drowners will wander in and kill the Nilfgaardians there.
If Geralt helped the Temerians and didn't destroy the nest, nekkers (notes changed it to nekkers from drowners) will make their way in but end up killing Temerian POWs, not Nilfgaardians. If Geralt destroyed the nest, the Temerians will enter themselves but end up getting killed by the Nilfgaardians.
If Geralt helped the Nilfgaardians but didn't destroy all the nests, Nilfgaardian presence will increase in the swamps and the Temerian insurgents are found and killed. If Geralt destroyed all the nests, the Temerian insurgents go home.
Quest name: It's a SetupLocation: White Orchard
Geralt can examine the cart after the griffin attacked it to find a griffin lure attached to an arrow, indicating someone knew of the griffin and purposely shot the lure at the cart to have it attacked. On talking to the merchant in the tavern, he'll explain he heard a thunk as he was crossing the ford area but thought it was an underwater rock. Back at the ford crossing, Geralt can find evidence that leads him to a small hunter's camp. The hunter confesses he did it because the trader was a traitor to the Nilfgaardian regime and Geralt can punish him or let him go. Geralt can then return to the trader and let him know what happened or not.
Quest name: Whispers Under the BridgeLocation: White Orchard
The locals are reporting strange whispers and sounds at night from the bridge and if Geralt investigates during the right time, a water hag appears who actually wants to talk to Geralt. She asks him to bring her husband there as he cheated on her 10 years ago but when she was on her way to confront him and his lover, she was dragged into the water by drowners. Geralt can agree or decline. If he declines, a fight will ensue, leading to her and her drowners' deaths.
If Geralt agrees, she explains the man struggled with impotence and to use that to lure him out to pick some herbs near the bridge. On finding the man, Geralt learns his wife actually died 5 years ago and is buried in the nearby church's graveyard. Now who does Geralt believe? If Geralt brings the man to the bridge, the water hag and drowners will drag him into the water and disappear from the area.
The truth is that the water hag was actually the woman the man was cheating with and his real wife never knew and died 5 years after his lover's death.
Quest name: The Edge of ActingLocation: Novigrad
One of Dandelion's ballads, The Edge of the World, is being turned into a play in Novigrad and Dandelion is very involved in its production along with an unnamed Director. Unfortunately he's having problems with an actor who was to play a sylvan named Torque so he asks Geralt for help to find the actor. After looking for the actor, Geralt can only report on his death. As Dandelion and the Director frantically try to find a solution, Geralt interjects, thinking he could play himself in the play. Unfortunately, neither likes this idea as it'd be too ordinary and the actor to play Geralt wouldn't be happy, so they want him play the role of the sylvan instead and Geralt can choose to accept the payment or not.
If agreed, Geralt will then take part in the play and can answer with the correct lines or not. If he succeeds, Geralt is either given a monetary reward or optionally something like an Oscar (a golden trophy for great actors). This trophy would have only been for looks. If Geralt fails, the audience will boo and Dandelion will admit it was a bad idea to use Geralt but was still funny to see it.
Locations
Name
Description
Dalvik
A village in Skellige removed from the game and thus only seen in one of the game's trailers.
Floating Market
A market established on conjoined ships off the east coast of Ard Skellig, only accessible with a boat.
White Bridge
A city and region in Temeria from the novels was set to appear but was replaced with Oxenfurt.
Monsters
Bełt
Blud
Bruxa
Dragon
Forest troll
Giant
Hanged man
Hyphydriae
Ifrit
Kelpia (spikesprout)
Korred
Manticore
Mula
Nereid
Nidhogg
Ośniak (axibrun)
Rat wizard
Rimpler
Satyr
Szarlej
Szlifierz kości
Vypper (wipper)
Wendigo
Wight
Żyrytwa (ilyocoris)
↑ Likely later changed to sylvan.
BełtHanged manHyphydraeMulaOśniakRimplerSzlifierz kości
Scenes
The Witcher 3 Wild Hunt - Geralt cooks for Yennefer (Deleted Kaer Morhen scene)The Witcher 3 Wild Hunt - Vesemir cooks for Yennefer (Deleted Kaer Morhen scene)