The Last Wish (quest)
The Last Wish is a secondary quest in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt.
Important: this quest will fail if not completed before retrieving Uma from Crow's Perch during Ugly Baby. Be sure to complete it before doing so if you wish to romance Yennefer.
Walkthrough

Dangerous Sometimes. Malicious All the Time
After finding Skjall in the well of Freya's Garden, and speaking about locating (and finding) Ciri, Yennefer requests you meet her in Larvik, at the warrior's hall. She has something important to tell you. You can accompany her to Larvik immediately (on horseback), or agree to meet her there later.
Enter the warrior's hall, where Yennefer is gaining the upper hand on some unruly yokels. Speak to her, and she mentions a mage named Amos var Ypsis, a specialist on djinns. She tells the story of his disappearance. Answer how you wish. She wishes to know what became of him, but she's particularly interested in his djinn. Feel free to ask more about these mystical creatures, before agreeing to help
The harbor is a short jog from the warrior's hall, down the hill to where her vessel is moored. Speak to her again. She tells you of an incantation on her boat, allowing you to see if there are any wrecks on the seafloor. Yennefer takes the helm. You sit at the bow of the boat.
You set sail into the ocean waters, talking of past adventurers. Eventually you reach an area that Yennefer wishes to search. She casts a spell to slow your heart, allowing you more breathing room. Leap into the frigid waters, and dive directly below the boat. If any sirens are in the vicinity, attack them with your crossbow or signs before you go.
Below are the remains of a longship, and a few swimming drowners. Avoid them as you find the entrance to an underwater cavern, or use your crossbow and remove them as a threat, and swim inside (roughly east). Use your Witcher Senses on the small half-buried vessel—it sports a Clan Drummond figurehead. This isn't the correct boat, so swim back to the surface. Yennefer sails roughly northwest, crossing the ocean toward a pair of small, odd islands of thin fur trees and rocks. Before you reach there, watch for the white whale if you wish.
She then stops and finds another wreck. Dive down and discover a variety of chests and barrels. By the rocks and ship's deck, you find a war horn bearing the Clan Heymaey symbols. Check for further chests, and gather all the war booty you can from them. There's also a Skelliger's buckler from ages past, but this isn't Yennefer's boat, so return to the surface.
Yennefer continues to travel towards the two islands that make up Ingdalen Isle. As she passes between the rocks, she senses something odd. Dive down under her boat, to discover a huge crater. However, when Yennefer uses your eyes to see this unnatural seafloor, she informs you this anomaly is the effect of teleportation. Now swim toward a collection of chests and crates (which can be looted), before finding the remains of a boat, which next to lies a broken seal, which Yennefer will order you to grab and return to the surface. (50 for giving Yen the seal)
The Other Half of the Ship
After examining the broken seal, Yennefer opens a portal and teleports you both to within a dozen yards of the other half of the seal. You appear atop a snow-covered mountain in Ard Skellig. Before continuing, quiz Yennefer regarding exactly why she wants a djinn. Choose either conversation. The topic soon changes to the link you and Yennefer share. She reminds you of the time you asked a djinn to bind you both together. Yennefer wants to ask this one to take that wish back.
 
Agree or don't. Yennefer wants to know if there's any magic left between you. Take that comment as you wish. You then head towards a ship, left atop the mountains of northern Ard Skellig, northwest of Yustianna's Grotto. Approach the wrecked vessel, looting the captain's cabin of treasure if you wish. Then continue down into the hull for more chests. The place looks like a laboratory. Gather some rare books, then inspect the following:
• A trail of blood from a pair of shoes. They lead to a bookcase. Interact with it, and you lift it up, revealing the crushed and bloodied remains of Amos. An unfortunate accident? Tell her you must search the body. You produce the other half of the seal. Head back up on the top deck.
Up at the ship's wheel, Yennefer aims to conjure and tame the djinn. It appears, but is too powerful to control. Leap down to the deck and attack the djinn, rolling in and using the central mast to avoid its electrical discharges. Whittle its health down until it weakens.
Yennefer captures the djinn, and bargains with it to remove the magic coupling you both in return for its freedom. It obliges. Afterwards, you both sit, and contemplate your triumph. You can:
Comment using language that is friendly and pleasant.
Answer using words that are more standoffish.
Yennfer tells you she was expecting to feel different. But nothing has changed. Answer:
 
Agree, telling her you love her. You embrace and kiss on the boat. Just like your first. Then you watch the mountains. Afterwards, you return to Yennefer's bedroom in Kaer Trolde.
Disagree, telling her you don't want to be with her any more. Yennefer is shocked, and you agree to a more formal friendship instead of romance.
Spoiler: if you chose to romance Triss during Now or Never, and you chose to romance Yennefer during this quest, you will lose them both.
Afterwards, it is agreed that Ciri should be found, but you aren't happy at Yennefer's insistence that the emperor should receive a report. Agree or disagree with her request—it is decided either way. If you have completed your searching of Velen and Novigrad, you decide Uma is important, and you must now head to see the Baron, collect Uma, and ride for Kaer Morhen. Your paths will intertwine again, as this quest concludes. (50)
Note: Normally Yennefer would remain in The New Port until you leave the area, giving you time to converse with her on a few topics. However, with Patch 4.0 installed she leaves immediately.
Defeating the Djinn with upscaling
Note: The following strategy is only required for game versions prior to Patch 4.0. As the patch fixes the Djinn's stats when level upscaling is active, thus it can be defeated without any specific skills or gear required.
Fighting the Djinn with upscaling turned on will cause the fight to become nearly impossible to win. As the Djinn will be able to one shot Geralt with nearly every attack, while itself soaking up damage like a sponge. Very often even Undying will not prevent his death as the lightning strikes apparently do enough damage to deplete Geralt's whole health bar several times over. However, it is possible to beat the Djinn, in fact there is a way for pretty much everyone to beat him, but it could be considered an exploit. First I will explain how to beat him fair and square.
The Strategy
First of all know that this tactic will make it possible to defeat the Djinn and not assure a victory, so it will still be easily the toughest opponent in the entire game. However, it did allow some to defeat the Djinn first try on Death March.
Important: Contrary to what most players believe the Djinn does not deal Elemental damage. Most of the damage it deals is actually Monster damage, while the icicle attack deals Bludgeoning damage.
Geralt should be at least level 16, however, a sure win situation will be at level is 23, so you should postpone doing this quest until you reach it. Without further ado here is what you need in order to prepare:
Gear and consumables
Bear School Gear - preferably the enhanced version, the gear requires level 25, however at level 23 you can drink Wolven Hour, thanks to this your gear will be 2 levels stronger than the upscaled Djinn. The enhanced version will grant 46% resistance against Monster damage and 13% against Bludgeoning damage.
Starting with level 18 (20 without Wolven Hour) you can wear the regular version which will give 34% resistance against Monster damage and 7% against Bludgeoning damage.
Alternatively starting with level 16 (18 without Wolven Hour) you can wear Enhanced Griffin School Gear which will give 33% resistance against Monster damage and 10% against Bludgeoning damage. However, being medium armour it will only grant up to 33% aditional reduction from the Arachas decoction.
Elementa oil - preferably the superior version but any will do
Arachas decoction - wearing heavy gear causes it to reduce damage up to 50%, in order to get the Arachas mutagen you need to kill a Venomous arachas which are level 30+ so it's not easy, but if you can't handle that then you have no chance of beating the Djinn regardless.
Griffin decoction - each time the Djinn will hit geralt it will grant 1% more resistance against all 5 types of damage up to 25%.
Archgriffin decoction - all strong attacks without Archgriffin do far less than 5% total health damage to the Djinn. This decoction ensures each strong hit with stamina behind it takes away 5% so the fight is over after 20 instead of 200 hits.
Superior Thunderbolt - during the fight the Djinn will cause a storm to appear, thus drinking the potion will always give the 100% chance for a critical hit
Superior Tawny Owl - you need increased stamina regeneration as you will be using Quen a lot.
Skill points and mutagens
Undying - with such high damage reduction the skill will be able to save Geralt's life if he loses all his health, though you still need to be on your guard
Acquired Tolerance - you will need 8 skill points in the alchemy tree for Protective Coating so best to unlock this skill while at it
Heightened Tolerance - not really needed, however, there is no rank 1 skill that will be of any help during the fight
Protective Coating - when using Elementa oil it will give 25% additional protection against monster damage
Gourmet - you will need health regeneration if you get hit, be sure to eat food that regenerates 80 HP. Alternatively, you can eat food during the fight.
3 mutagens, 1 Greater green mutagen and 2 Greater red mutagens. If you're having trouble surviving, try 3 Greater green mutagens.
Other abilities you should be using, if you have the points to spare and the slots to put them in:
Fleet Footed - additional protection while dodging attacks so you can dodge towards the Djinn during the spinning electricity attack and get the first strong attack in
Metabolic Control - depending on how many recipes you discovered you may not have a big enough toxicity pool to drink 3 decoctions in that case use this skill or drop the Archgriffin decoction
Tissue Transmutation - 2000 additional health to tank a hit in case your Quen is not up
Rage Management - allows activating Quen with adrenaline in case of emergency
Strength Training - dps
Crushing Blows - dps
Rend - dps
Muscle Memory - dps light attacks will not do enough damage, focus on strong attacks with archgriffin
Precise Blows - dps light attacks will not do enough damage, focus on strong attacks with archgriffin
Note: Even if at level 23 you fully unlock all of the skills above, you will not have enough slots to equip all of them, as you will have 10 so far. Protective Coating, Undying and Gourmet are essential, Tissue Transmutation and Rage Management come recommended while learning the fight.
Now once you reach the point where Yennefer will prepare to summon the Djinn Meditate untill 18:00 (6:00 pm) this will cause Superior Tawny Owl to have limitless duration. Apply Elementa oil to your sword, select Quen, drink the Superior Tawny Owl, Griffin decoction, Arachas decoction, Archgriffin decoction (if you can) and eat some food that regenerates 80 HP.
Now have Yen summon the Djinn, hide behind the mast, now activate Quen and drink the Superior Thunderbolt. Now roll toward the Djinn and close the remaining distance with a fast attack followed by strong attacks. After 3 - 5 hits the Djinn will use a shockwave that will break Quen and stun Geralt, when that happens roll away from it which will remove the stun effect, once you are far away reactivate Quen and repeat. If you get hit while closing the distance with the Djinn then hit it once or twice only, hitting the Djinn will stop it from attacking for a short time so use it to roll away again to a safe distance to reactivate Quen. You can use the cabin and lower deck to hide in order to use Quen and/or to regenerate if you take damage. Once the Djinn is down by 50% the real test will begin, it will start teleporting a lot more often and each time it reappears will cause a shockwave, thus if it appears right next to Geralt after breaking Quen he will take a lot of damage, but with all the damage reduction and protection skills he should survive as long as he doesn't get hit too often. The Griffin decoction will reduce the damage Geralt takes each time he will get hit, with Enhanced Bear School Gear and Protective Coating it will go up to 96% (up to 84% with normal Bear School Gear, or up to 83% with Enhanced Griffin School Gear), which will further be halved by the Arachas decoction (or by a third with Enhanced Griffin School Gear). At which point you will only really have to worry about the icicle attacks which are easy to dodge. You can prevent Quen from being broken by the Djinn's shockwave if you roll away right after performing 4 strikes, which will usually be when the Djinn will use it. However, after a second onslaught on the Djinn you should reactivate Quen even if it was not broken else it's very likely it's duration will run out. Also keep a close eye on your Elementa oil charges and never allow it to fully run out. With enough practice you should be able to defeat the Djinn eventually.
Exploit method
It is possible to "cheese" the fight in 2 ways:
It is possible to hide on the stern or lower deck of the ship, depending on the Djinn's current location. Once you are far away you will be able to save the game after waiting a bit, thus allowing you to defeat the Djinn bit by bit.
It is also possible to position the Djinn in such a way that you can fire the crossbow at it from a safe location like the cabin, however, this will take a lot of time and it's unlikely the Djinn will stay put forever.
New game +
If you kept your Grandmaster sets from the regular playthrough all you will really need is Protective Coating, when combined with Grandmaster Bear School Gear it will grant 100% resistance against Monster damage, making most of the damage delt by the Djinn laughable. Just as with the normal strategy only watch out for the icicle attacks. However, any legendary version of witcher gear will have enough resistance against monster damage to keep Geralt alive, although Cat School Gear may also require the Griffin decoction, also remember that unlike other sets it grants no resistance against bludgeoning damage.
Journal entry
Before Geralt and Yennefer parted after their adventure in Freya's garden, the sorceress asked him to meet her in Larvik. She made it clear this was a personal matter, but gave no further details.
Geralt duly traveled to Larvik, where Yennefer revealed to him her plan: she intended to capture a djinn and draw on its power. Brrr, the very thought of it makes my skin crawl and my throat constrict! For, dear reader, I have had the misfortune of dealing with a djinn once in my life, and I assure you - once was one time too many. Most djinns, you see, combine incredible power with a mean streak a mile long. In short, they are nasty beings that prudent people should steer well clear of.
Yet when Yennefer sets her sights on something, there's no turning back. Geralt glumly realized this and decided to help her handle the dangers that would surely arise during this mad endeavor. Yennefer had managed to learn about a certain scholar who had devoted his entire life to delving into the secrets of djinns. He had died in mysterious circumstances during a shipwreck off the coast of Hindarsfjall. That is where Geralt and Yennefer decided to begin their search.
The trail they followed took Geralt and Yennefer from the bottom of the sea off the coast of Hindarsfjall to the snowy peaks towering above Ard Skellig. There, barging recklessly in where even dragons should fear to tread, they summoned the djinn and tried to capture it. The djinn, however, had no intention of giving up without a fight and resisted with all its strength.
Together witcher and sorceress managed to pin this feisty spirit. Once it understood its situation was hopeless, Yennefer could convince it to do what she wanted - release Geralt and her from the spell another djinn had cast on them long ago. This spell had made it so that Geralt and Yennefer, despite their many differences, could not live without each other. Now they had a chance to see if, once the spell was no longer in effect, the magic between them would still persist...
If Geralt tells Yennefer: "I still love you too":
The truth did not disappoint. The captured djinn dispelled its predecessor's work... and the feelings between Geralt and the sorceress burned on as fiery as ever. Many an admirer breathed a heavy sigh on that day, when the bond between these two renowned beauties closed tight, crushing all outsiders' hopes...
If Geralt tells Yennefer: "Sorry, but I don't want to be with you anymore":
The truth came as a brutal shock to Yennefer, though she was not the kind to let this show. After the djinn dispelled its predecessor's work, Geralt confessed that he no longer felt towards her what he once had. Hearts heavy, they returned to Kaer Trolde and then went their separate ways.
If Geralt doesn't want to help Yennefer:
Though Yennefer had made it clear the matter was important to her, Geralt made it equally clear he was in no mood to be her errand boy yet again. He left her in Skellige and returned to his own affairs.
Objectives
Meet Yennefer in Larvik.
Accompany Yennefer on the way to Larvik.
Go to Larvik's harbor with Yennefer.
Talk to Yennefer.
Get on the boat with Yennefer.
Help Yennefer find the djinn.
Search the bottom of the bay using your Witcher Senses.
Return to the boat.
Help Yennefer find the djinn.
Search the bottom of the bay using your Witcher Senses.
Return to the boat and talk to Yennefer. (50)
Follow Yennefer to the top deck.
Search the ship using your Witcher Senses.
Wait for Yennefer to summon the djinn.
Stop the djinn. (50)
Notes
If enemy upscaling is on, this can turn into a tough, if not impossible, fight. If having difficulties with it on, turn it off prior to the fight (before the djinn spawns).
This is corrected with Patch 4.0 and the Djinn is no longer nigh impossible to beat. In fact the fight is now pretty underwhelming.
If you looted the crystal skull at the start of Lilac and Gooseberries, you can give it to Yennefer for 50 after finishing this quest and before taking Uma from Crow's Perch in Ugly Baby. There will be another opportunity to do this later though.
Trivia
In CD Projekt RED's Cyberpunk 2077 expansion Phantom Liberty, a readable item titled Last wish referencing Yennefer and possible events of this quest.
Videos
The Witcher 3- Wild Hunt - Story - Part 50 - The Last Wish (Yennefer Romance)
References
↑ Prima Official Game Guide, 2015 (pg. 145, 146) written by Prima Games