Thunderbolt
Thunderbolt is a potion in The Witcher, The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings, and The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt.
The Witcher
"Witchers take this potion before fighting strong, heavily armored opponents. Imbibing Thunderbolt causes witchers to enter into a battle trance. While in this state, witchers attack more efficiently and cause greater damage, while at the same time neglecting their own defense and becoming an easier target."
Thunderbolt potion increases damage inflicted on opponents by 100%, but reduces dodging and parrying efficiency by 50% each.
Source
The Book of the Full Moon
Geralt receives a potion in the Prologue from Vesemir during the Defending Kaer Morhen quest.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
The formula for this potion must be acquired before it can be brewed.
Journal entry
The Thunderbolt potion augments muscle power and thus damage dealt using a sword. As simple as it is effective, the brew is a more powerful version of the Rook potion.
Unfortunately, Thunderbolt may cause weaker muscle fibers to rupture, decreasing both Vitality and its regeneration. These side effects can be alleviated by taking the Swallow potion.
Potion significantly increases Toxicity when imbibed.
This potion is recommended before fighting particularly resilient or heavily armored monsters.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
Thunderbolt returns as a potion in the third game. Three of these potions can be crafted at any one time and placed in the consumables slot.
The recipe for Thunderbolt is received from Vesemir, along with all necessary ingredients to make it, right before fighting the griffin during the main quest, The Beast of White Orchard. The potion can also be received ready-made after The Battle of Kaer Morhen council meeting, if Geralt chooses to use the laboratory for potions.
Crafting Requirements 
Dwarven spirit× 1 Dwarven spirit × 1
Cortinarius× 2 Cortinarius × 2
Endrega embryo× 1 Endrega embryo × 1
See also
Enhanced Thunderbolt
Superior Thunderbolt
Gallery

External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Thunderbolt