Timeline
The timeline documents important dates and events in the Witcher series, with the dates in human calendar are counted from the "Resurrection", a mysterious event mentioned in Season of Storms.
For easier viewing and separation of canon/non-canon this page has been split into 4 sections. Only the main page is considered canon, the others are non-canon (like the games, Netflix show, and other adaptations).
For the sake of convenience, Ciri's year of birth is assumed to be 1252; two other possible dates are 1251 and 1253, see Ciri#Ciri's age for the details.
Sub-Pages:CanonGamesNetflixOther Adaptations
Between 2700 BR to 1240 BR
Dwarves arrive in the lands of Continent, the gnomes already have small colonies in Mahakam and Tir Tochair
2230s BR - the Age of Migration, Aen Seidhe elves arrive on their white ships (if a phrase "2000 years before the arrival of humans" means the 2000 years before the Conjunction of the Spheres)
1240s BR - The Age of Migration (if a phrase "2000 years before the arrival of humans" means the 2000 years before the First Landing)
230s BR
The Conjunction of the Spheres
Humans arrive in the world
Dauk and Wozgor people settle in the Continent's north
Emergence of goddess worship in the form of Melitele, one of the oldest and most widespread systems of beliefs
Development of a written language based on elven runes and dwarven ideograms
1
The Resurrection
760s
The necropolis at Fen Carn is created
Nordling people arrive in the north of the Continent, human civilizations already present in the other parts of the world (people also settle in the south)
Known as the "First Landing" or "Landing of the Exiles", this event is very important in human history. Humans most likely came ashore at the mouth of the Yaruga and the Pontar Delta. Once on land, Jan Bekker was quick to discover and harness the Force found there and humans set up the first settlement. It took several hundred years for the elves to notice the growing threat posed by the newcomers
Between 760s and 830s
Reigns of Dezmod and Sambuk begin simultaneously
The introduction of a new (twenty-four character) alphabet
The Novigradian Union is formed
Geoffrey Monck takes a group of children to be trained by the elves at Loc Muinne
Mages' seat in Mirthe is established
Massacre at Loc Muinne and Est Haemlet carried out by Raupenneck of Tretogor's army. Carnage at Shaerrawedd
830s
Raffard the White ends the Six Years' War between warring kings. While he does not officially rule, he becomes the first advisor to Temeria's mentally ill king, commanding power from behind
Creation of the Conclave of Mages and adoption of the laws drawn up by Herbert Stammelford, Aurora Henson, Ivo Richert, Agnes of Glanville, Geoffrey Monck and Radmir of Tor Carnedd
Formation of the Chapter and Supreme Council of Mages
Executions of all those who do not recognize the Conclave and new laws. Raffard the White is among those killed in the ensuing conflict
839
Emiel Regis Rohellec Terzieff-Godefroy, vampire and good friend of Geralt, is born
950s
The first witchers are created by the renegade mages Alzur and Cosimo Malaspina
1060s
Aelirenn's Uprising
Dilapidation of Shaerrawedd
1107
Vizimir I is born
1112
The witcher Vesemir is noted as being active in fulfilling the duties of his profession during this year.
1120s
King Radovid III, looking for resources to wage war against Aedirn, decides to tax the Appanage of Kovir. The Appanage declares itself as the independent Kingdom of Kovir, resulting in war between the new kingdom and Redania. Despite support from ally Kaedwen, the war ends with Kovir's victory and the First Treaty of Lan Exeter is signed.
1130
Dagread moves Kaedwen's capital from Ban Ard to Ard Carraigh
1133
On Birke, in the village of Sylvan Dam, the prophet Lebioda delivers a sermon to his students
1140s
Radovid III dies as the last Redanian king to bear the title of King of Kovir and Poviss. Kovir and Redania are officially separate from each other.
1142
The mage Cregennan is murdered in Foam, Lara Dorren gives birth to their child and dies of exhaustion in the woods near Tretogor. Queen Cerro of Redania adopts the half-elf girl and named her Riannon.
Lara's death triggers another war between elves and humans, fostering racial tension that continues through the 13th century
1150s
Aedirn conquers Dol Blathanna
Falka's Rebellion
1150
Dagread proclaims an ukase allowing witchers to carry their work freely in Kaedwen's crownlands and border Marches and removes the local authorities' jurisdiction over them
1155
Coram II is born
1158
Falka becomes pregnant with one of her generals
Vridank, Cerro, Heltmult and Denhard are murdered by Falka
Falka captures Riannon (who's also pregnant) and imprisons her in Houtborg
1159
Houtborg triplets are born
Falka is burned at a stake
Vizimir I and Goidemar are crowned
Immediately after the coronation, Vizimir marries Ramona Thyssen
Months after Falka's death, Goidemar storms Houtborg and rescues his wife and children
1160
Radovid IV is born
1173
Belleteyn (night between 30 April and 1 May) - Yennefer of Vengerberg is born
1176
Outbreak of the Black Death plague in Vizima. Princess Adela dies helping priests in the hospital.
Prince Amavet is cruelly murdered by Count Roger Kameny and his men
Riannon dies 35 years old, struck by the death of two of her children
Roger Kameny is subjected to torture and torn apart by horses. This incident prompts the Temerian nobility to rebel which is suppressed by the intervention of Cidarian forces led by King Liam.
Goidemar marries Adda of Cidaris, Liam's daughter
1177
Prince Amavet's illegitimate children, Muriel and Crispin, are born
Cedric of Temeria is born
Coram II and Fiona are married
1178
Corbett is born
1180s
Dagread dies
1186
Yennefer of Vengerberg graduates from Aretuza and becomes an official sorceress
1190
Coram II ascends the Cintran throne
1190s
Crispin disappears without leaving a trace in Metinna during a war with Nilfgaard
1194
Kaer Morhen Pogrom
Muriel and Robert Garramone are married
Adalia is born
1197
Coram II dies
Corbett ascends the Cintran throne and marries Elen of Kaedwen
Dagorad is born to Corbett and Elen
1200
In the village of Forest Dam, an obelisk is erected by Spyridon Apps to commemorate the prophet Lebioda's sermon there sixty-seven years prior
1200s
Temeria and Redania split Emblonia between themselves
1201
Robert of Garramone dies, his son Robert II is born
1202
Muriel becomes known as "Lovely Harlot"
1203
Vizimir I dies at the age of 96
The Borsodi brothers officially enter business, trading horses and livestock from a shed in the countryside
1208
Adalia marries Ragbard of Ellander who dies half a year later; queen Bienvenu of Temeria arranges her next marriage, with prince Dagorad of Cintra
1209
King Corbett of Cintra passes away and his only child Dagorad ascends the throne at the age of 12
1210
Roegner of Ebbing, Ciri's grandfather, is born
Elen of Kaedwen dies
1211
Geralt of Rivia is born
Esterad Thyssen is born
1212
Kobus de Ruyter is born
1217
Calanthe, Ciri's grandmother, is born
1219
Sigismund Dijkstra is born
1220s
Audoen separates Hengfors from Kovir during the Secession of Poviss and forms there his miniature kingdom, which includes Arcsea
Virfuril defeats Medell's armies at Hagge
1220
Ildiko Breckl is born
1225
King Osmyk of Kerack passes away, his son Belohun ascends the Keracki throne.
Olaf Stigvason is born
1228
A group of dissidents forms against Fergus var Emreis, with Vysogota of Corvo as one of its leaders
1229
Dandelion is born
Geralt sets out on the Path for the first time
1231
Death of Dagorad of Cintra, coronation of Calanthe
Aplegatt is born
1232
Battle of Hochebuz
1234
Peter Evertsen is born
Roegner of Ebbing and Calanthe are married
1236
Roegner of Ebbing is saved from death by Duny, going by the name "Urcheon of Erlenwald", who invokes the Law of Surprise as his payment
Pavetta, Calanthe and Roegner's daughter, is born
1238
Esterad Thyssen and Zuleyka of Talgar are married
1239
The beginning of the Northern Wars, annexation of Ebbing
Houvenaghel is born
Windhalm of Attre is born
1240s
Radovid IV takes Arcsea
Radovid IV dies
Heribert becomes king of Redania and argues with the Chapter of the Gift and the Art about money, resulting in mages boycotting Redania. Although he doesn't rule long, the mages' boycott would remain years after his death.
Vizimir II becomes King of Redania
1241
Muriel dies
The massacre in Iello, enacted by the witcher Brehen, takes place (according to years calculated from in-novel letters, inconsistent with dates from the Saga)
1242
The Brotherhood of Sorcerers employ the services of the jurists Codringher and Jacob Fenn in discrediting the witness of a scandal known as "The Grain Scam" (according to years calculated from in-novel letters, inconsistent with dates from the Saga)
1245
Roegner of Ebbing dies
June-August - events of the Season of Storms novel (according to a year mentioned in the in-novel letters, inconsistent with dates from the Saga)
1246
The massacre in Iello, enacted by the witcher Brehen, takes place
1247
The Brotherhood of Sorcerers employ the services of the jurists Codringher and Jacob Fenn in discrediting the witness of a scandal known as "The Grain Scam"
Dandelion graduates Oxenfurt Academy, becomes a professor and teaches students for a year
1248
Dandelion decides to devote his life to poetry and leaves to explore the world
Geralt and Dandelion meet at a fête in Gulet
The short stories The Edge of the World and The Last Wish takes place
Angoulême is born
Hjalmar an Craite is born
1249
Carthia van Canten is born
After half a year spent together in Vengerberg, Geralt leaves Yennefer without saying goodbye and instead leaves a rose on the bed for her
1250
Shani is born
June-August - events of Season of Storms (calculation based on the rest of books)
1251
Jarre is born
The short story "A Question of Price" takes place
Duny and Pavetta, Ciri's parents are married
Eist Tuirseach and Calanthe are married
1252
Ciri's great-great-great-grandmother Fiona dies in Cleves at the age of 93, forgotten by the world.
Belleteyn (night between 30 April and 1 May) - Princess Cirilla Fiona Elen Riannon of Cintra is born. She is better known as Ciri or the Lion Cub of Cintra.
The short stories The Witcher (short story) and The Voice of Reason take place
1253
The short story The Bounds of Reason takes place
1255
Radovid V is born
1256
Calanthe breaks the engagement of Prince Windhalm of Attre and Ciri
Death of Pavetta and Duny at Sedna Abyss
Engagement of Prince Kistrin of Verden and Ciri
1257
Emhyr var Emreis overthrows and executes the Usurper, taking again control of the Imperial throne.
1258
Akerspaark is killed
Maecht falls into political dispute, and the throne is elected to Hoët, under Emhyr's support and rule.
Duke Raymund of Toussaint begins his reign of the duchy
1261
Dandelion travels to Toussaint and meets Duchess Anna Henrietta and the two become romantically involved from Belleteyn to the summer solstice.
1262
The short story "The Sword of Destiny" takes place
Calanthe breaks the engagement of Prince Kistrin of Verden and Ciri
1263
Engagement of Prince Radovid V of Redania and Ciri
King Vizimir II breaks the engagement between the pair
The Nilfgaardian Empire invades the Northern Kingdoms, triggering the First Northern War
The Battle of Marnadal, defeat of the Cintran Army and death of King Eist Tuirseach
The Slaughter of Cintra - Queen Calanthe, Ciri's grandmother, commits suicide rather than surrendering to the Nilfgaardians
First battle of Sodden
Battle of Sodden Hill
1264
The short story "Something More" takes place
1265
Ebbing confederation insurrection
Duke Raymund of Toussaint dies, his wife Duchess Anna Henrietta takes over
Ciri begins her training at Kaer Morhen
1267
Major events in Blood of Elves, Time of Contempt, and Baptism of Fire take place.
Vizimir II, Meve, Foltest, Demavend, and Henselt meet secretly at Hagge.
Cintra rebellion takes place. Windhalm of Attre is executed in Cintra.
1st July - Thanedd coup; Vizimir II is assassinated; Nilfgaardian Empire invades Dol Angra valley; Second Northern War begins.
Attre rebellion starts.
5th August - the Lodge of Sorceresses is formed by Philippa Eilhart.
19th August - the Lodge conspires to wed Ciri to Tankred Thyssen of Kovir in order to create a country ruled by magic, eventually hoping to eclipse Nilfgaard in might.
31st August - the Battle for the Bridge on the Yaruga takes place.
9th September - The Rats confront Leo Bonhart in the village of Jealousy and are killed in combat.
27th September - Vysogota of Corvo discovers the wounded Ciri and takes her back to his cottage to recuperate.
31st October - On Saovine Eve, Ciri kills several members of Stefan Skellen's gang in a tavern in Dun Dare. In his cottage, Vysogota passes away.
November - Ciri kills several members of Stefan Skellen's gang, including Rience on Tarn Mira. Ciri escapes from Bonhart by entering Tor Zireael.
1268
Major events in The Lady of the Lake take place
Red comet, first week of March
March - Battle of Brenna takes place
The Second Northern War ends
Assault on Stygga Castle
2nd April - Peace of Cintra – a peace settlement treaty ending the Nilfgaard wars, is signed
Execution of Vrihedd Brigade officers
6 or 7 June – the Rivian Pogrom, Geralt of Rivia is apparently killed by an angry peasant mob, his body is never found. Yennefer of Vengerberg appears to die trying to heal him. The pair were taken by Ciri to a pocket dimension and left there to heal and live their lives in peace.
22nd September - Joanna Selborne appears before imperial officials in the High Tribunal of the Eternal Empire and testifies regarding the events of the previous year.
First outbreak of plague
Attre rebellion ends
1269
In Maribor, Milo "Rusty" Vanderbeck contracts the plague and passes away in the arms of Iola the Second. Four days later, she passes away from the plague alone.
1272
Second outbreak of the Catriona plague
Beginning of the witch hunts
1276
The end of the witch hunts
1290
Peter Evertsen is promoted to imperial treasurer of the crown
1294
Third outbreak of plague
End of the thirteenth century
Beginning of climate change
1301
Peter Evertsen is falsely accused of misappropriation of imperial funds, found guilty, imprisoned and executed at Winneburg Castle
Morvran Voorhis ceases being Emperor of Nilfgaard
Jan Calveit becomes Emperor of Nilfgaard
Jan Calveit appoints Houvenaghel burgrave and director of mines in Venendal and as reward for services rendered gives him the office of mayor of Neveugen
Houvenaghel dies
1309
Start of the War of the Two Unicorns
1318
End of the War of the Two Unicorns
1328
Emperor Jan Calveit posthumously rehabilitates Peter Evertsen
1331
Death of Stella Congreve
1340
Death of Shani
1350
the Haak invasion, rumored to have been predicted by Ithlinne
1373
Prior this year, the majority of Aen Seidhe has left the world through Ard Gaeth, taking with them most of their art and destroying what couldn't be taken
Young Nimue verch Wledyr ap Gwyn travels to Aretuza
An unnamed white-haired witcher kills one of the last idrs in Magpie Forest
1432
Flourens Delannoy is born
1460
Flourens Delannoy becomes librarian and secretary to the imperial court
1476
Delannoy becomes a professor at the academy at Castel Graupian
1510
Flourens Delannoy dies
Distant future
A few ages after Northern Wars Nimue and Condwiramurs Tilly cooperate to fill missing links in story of Geralt, Ciri, and Yennefer.
Archeologists from the University of Castel Graupian discover Dandelion's lost first writings of Half a Century of Poetry in Beauclair. Estimations from professor Schliemann correctly place the manuscript as a 13th century relic, belonging to the Dark Ages.
15 year old Ciri visits the future of her world while escaping the Wild Hunt with Ihuarraquax. Wandering around what seems to be a petrol-smelling asphalt road and a garbage dump, she is disgusted and after learning from the unicorn that this is her world, she is horrified and hopes it is the distant past, not the future that awaits.
Approximately 3 000 years after Nimue and Condwiramurs' work, the world's unstable orbit reaches maximum and prompts the ice age, known as the White Frost from Ithlinne's prophecy. The epoch is said to end with the "New Sun" and rebirth of the world.