Tretogor
Tretogor (Common Slavic: Three Mountains) is the capital of Redania since King Vestibor and the location of the royal court. It is located less than 300 miles from Oxenfurt, near copper deposits.
Ironically, although Redania is a powerful kingdom, the capital itself is relatively small. Besides the stately Royal Palace and Government Building, Tretogor is not particularly impressive. Most of the people living here work for the government and the trading centre is rather modest due to the proximity of Novigrad. Not all is dull here though – the city is known for its annual horse racing event known as the Grand Tretorian, as well as lively inns and nearby town/district of Coppertown, where the famous dwarven miners' brass orchestra performs.
History

First Landing
Tretogor once was the location of an ancient Aen Seidhe settlement, which, upon the great eastern expansion of humans approximately five hundred years ago, was abandoned by the elves and in its place humans built this city.
Second Northern War
In June 1267, after corruption was discovered within the kingdom, a Redanian baron who had secretly allied himself with Nilfgaard was executed in the capital. On the 30th, on the night of the Thanedd coup, King Vizimir II was assassinated in the capital by an elven assassin. Queen Hedwig became regent of the kingdom, quickly aided by the arrival of Philippa Eilhart, Triss Merigold, Keira Metz, Margarita Laux-Antille, and a number of other mages displaced by the coup and the northern rulers newly found indisposition to their kind.
Notable locations
Royal Palace
Government and administration buildings
The Golden Rooster
The Black Lily
Dungeons
Horse racing grounds
Coppertown
Notable people
Vizimir II
Hedwig of Malleore
Sigismund Dijkstra
Ori Reuven
Radovid V
Adda the White
Milan Raupenneck
Trivia
In German issues of the book series, the city is called Dreiberg, reflecting its etymology, combining Slavic roots for "three" and "mountain" or "hill".
Gallery
In The Witcher Adventure GameThe Golden Rooster in House of Glass