Undvik
Undvik is one of the larger islands in the Skellige archipelago. It is described as lying east of the main islands of Ard Skellig and An Skellig.
History
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
In 1272, the population of Undvik was forced to abandon the island after the ice giant Myrhyff appeared. Hjalmar an Craite led an expedition to kill it, joined by fellow clan members.
 If Geralt went to help Hjalmar: Geralt's actions influenced the events that took place on this expedition. The ice giant was slain and the isle of Undvik free from it's rule.
Later, during their Skellige campaign, the Nilfgaardian Empire laid their fleet off the coast of Undvik and later made an encampment on the shore to assist Ciri against the Wild Hunt.
Locations
Abandoned Village
Clan Tordarroch Forge
Dorve Ruins
Gull Point
Marlin Coast
Tor Gvalch'ca
The Old Port
Undvik Boatyards
Urskar
Associated quests
The Lord of Undvik
On Thin Ice
Master Armorers
Ruins, Hidden Treasure, You Know...
Shortcut
Tedd Deireadh, The Final Age
Veni Vidi Vigo
End of game canon content.
Trivia
In Swedish, "undvik" means "avoid".
Inspiration may also be taken from Rundvik, Sweden.
Notes
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, it is located to the western side of Skellige, probably to make the map more square.
There was a lot of additional content related to Undvik that was cut from The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt. Some remnants can still be seen during The Lord of Undvik quest, but there's also plenty in a collection of "journals from Urskar":
Notes from Urskar (1st journal) alluding to the usual ill omens predicting the arrival of the Wild Hunt, which however skelligers attribute to impending Ragh nar Roog.
Memoirs (3rd journal) detailing the start of an alliance between clans an Craite and Tordarroch and plans for the two clans to jointly raid Nilfgaard, but also explaining why the people of Undvik later fled specifically to Kaer Trolde.
Guard captain's notes (4th journal) talking about strange signs and disappearances around Tor Gvalch'ca, heavily implying that the ice giant came through an unstable portal open at the tower.
Notes (5th journal) accounting the birth of a two-headed lamb, chronologically implying more trouble coming from the tower.
Notes (7th journal) mentioning that Madman Lugos attempted an attack on a village on the island's eastern shore, speculatively in retaliation after the an Crate-Tordarroch alliance, but most notably no such village exists on the game map. What is now the quite useless Gull Point is likely where it was supposed to be, and makes logistical sense as one of the closest points to Holmstein's Port and the Clan Drummond domain.