Unicorn (creature)
What one can perceive as a unicorn or one-horns is in fact a member of a race of sentient multi-dimensional beings who are able to traverse the Multiverse. They are known to observe doings of less advanced species.
Quick Answers
What abilities do unicorns in the Witcher 3 possess?
						In the Witcher 3, unicorns are sentient beings with the capability to move across the Multiverse. They use telepathy for communication and have a relationship with the mystical Gate of the Worlds, a power exclusive to the Elder Blood. They can guide on how to evade this power. Additionally, a Black Unicorn can be crafted in the game upon reaching level 30.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
How do unicorns in the Witcher 3 communicate?
						In the Witcher 3, unicorns communicate using basic affirmations or denials and employ telepathy for inter-species communication. They refer to less advanced species as 'Beings' and are known to guide them in fulfilling their Destiny, despite their disdain for those who wield Power.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
What distinguishes the appearance of a unicorn from a regular horse in the Witcher 3?
						In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, a unicorn is distinguished from a regular horse by its white coat. During the quest Beyond Hill and Dale, Geralt can choose to ride a unicorn. If the game is saved after this discovery, the unicorn replaces Roach as the permanent mount. A true white horse is rare, and the skin color differentiates it from a gray horse, which may also have a white coat.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
Are unicorns in the Witcher 3 considered sentient beings?
						Unicorns in the Witcher 3 are indeed sentient beings. They belong to a sentient multi-dimensional race, capable of traversing the Multiverse. Their communication method is telepathy, and they are recognized for observing events across various dimensions.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
Can unicorns in the Witcher 3 traverse the Multiverse?
						Indeed, unicorns in the Witcher 3 possess the ability to traverse the Multiverse. They can shift between parallel realities and navigate through time, the fourth and fifth dimensions. Unicorns have assisted Ciri in escaping the Aen Elle world and eluding the Wild Hunt in a different world. The Aen Elle had coerced unicorns into opening inter-world gates for their own objectives.
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
{"@context":"https:\/\/schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","name":"Unicorn (creature)","mainEntity":}
Appearance
They look like horses with a single, often spiral horn in the middle of their foreheads, generally found to be at least a cubit in length. They also have iridescent coats, smaller heads, extremely slender necks and pasterns, and a longer, thicker tail. They use telepathy to communicate with each other and sometimes with other races. Unicorn horns are universal antidotes to poison and can be used to detect poisons as well. They also change color with age.
Personality
Divided into herds, unicorn society is specifically organized and led by a council of elders.
Unicorns tend to communicate via simple communicates like "confirmation" or "negation" and refer to members of less advanced races as "Beings". They vehemently despise those who use Power and usually kill those whom they perceive as the most dangerous. There are, however, cases where they help or guide lesser beings in fulfilling the Destiny, though the reasons they do it are usually unknown. One such event occured when a black unicorn led Viduka to the rock where he would later found his capital.
Unicorns greatly dislike the Aen Elle who forced them to open the gates between worlds so that they might massacre humans from other worlds. They can move between parallel realities, and they may also move through time (fourth and fifth dimensions). The legends that suggest unicorns can only be lured by virgin maidens are false. In reality, they simply despise evil and so, avoid it. They usually appear to people with a good heart.
Physiologus entry
The behaviour of the unicorn is greatly mystifying. Although exceptionally timid and fearful of people, if it should chance upon a maiden who has not had carnal relations with a man it will at once run to her, kneel before her and, without any fear whatsoever, lay its head in her lap. It is said that in the dim and distant past there were maidens who made a veritable practice of this. They remained unmarried and in abstinence for many years in order to be employed by hunters as a lure for unicorns. It soon transpired, however, that the unicorn only approached youthful maidens, paying absolutely no attention to older ones. Being a wise creature, the unicorn indubitably knows that remaining too long in the state of maidenhood is suspicious and counter to the natural order.pg. 253, Time of Contempt (UK edition)
Notable unicorns
Ihuarraquax
Gallery
Ihuarraquax in Gwent: The Witcher Card GameUnicorns in the FablesphereA doll unicorn turned into a bigger oneWiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni illustration by Jarosław MusiałIhuarraquax on Polish cover of the Time of ContemptAppearance in Netflix's The Witcher
See also
Chironex
Notes
A similarly mysterious race is mentioned in the Hussite Trilogy of Andrzej Sapkowski. Its members are known as Watchers and leave a trace of astral magic after utilising their powers.
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Time of Contempt
↑ The Tower of the Swallow
↑ 3.0 3.1 The Lady of the Lake
↑ Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
↑ The Witcher Role-Playing Game
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Unicorn