Vattier de Rideaux
Sub-Pages:
Main
Quotes
There's never been a problem a well-planned assassination couldn't solve.
- The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt gwent card
Vattier de Rideaux, viscount of Eiddon, was the head of military intelligence for Emperor Emhyr var Emreis.
Biography

Second Northern War
The intelligence chief was one of the organizers of the attack by the Scoia'tael on the mages' conference on Thanedd Island. Because the attack did not achieve its primary objective, de Rideaux and Emhyr var Emreis came to the conclusion that there were traitors among them, namely: Vilgefortz, Rience, Cahir, and possibly Isengrim Faoiltiarna.
Being the head of intelligence, he met with the emperor numerous times, with Emhyr growing more and more agitated as to why the spymaster hadn't found Ciri or Vilgefortz yet. After one such meeting where the emperor all but lambasted him, he headed off to visit his lover, Carthia van Canten, also known as Cantarella. As he passed the gardens though, Rience, via teleprojection, appeared and the two had a heated conversation before Rience stated he could hand over Cahir's head. In exchange, Rience wished to know where Stefan Skellen was and what he was planning.
Afterwards, he met with Carthia and told her everything that'd just happened, not realizing Carthia was more intelligent than she put on and reported to Assire var Anahid.
Concurrently, while Vattier and Emhyr planned a great offensive for the war against the north, which was going to happen at the start of Spring. Unfortunately, Vattier revealed the plans of the offensive to Cantarella, who told everything to Assire, who reported it to Philippa Eilhart.
Getting suspicious about what Stefan Skellen was planning, he made Neratin Ceka infiltrate within Skellen's gang. When however Neratin was killed, Vattier stopped receiving information.
In March 1268, Vattier marched with Emhyr and the Impera Brigade towards Stygga, where the battle between Vilgefortz and Geralt was taking place.
The following is considered game canon only and may contradict Andrzej Sapkowski's works.
Third Northern War
After the detainment of Yennefer of Vengerberg and a group of witchers from the School of the Viper, Vattier worked with Emperor Emhyr in a plan where the witchers would assassinate the kings of the North. Vattier was likely responsible for obtaining information from Yennefer about the Lodge of Sorceresses and their own plans to destabilize the Northern Kingdoms.
End of game canon content.
Trivia
Rideaux in French means "curtains".
Notes
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, a card of his image is part of the Nilfgaardian Empire deck.
During the quest A Dangerous Game, two of his ornate swords can be found during the quest, though Geralt comments that only one dagger is shown.
Gallery

External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: Vattier de Rideaux
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 Time of Contempt
↑ The Lady of the Lake
↑ The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings