Velen
Velen was a province situated in northern Temeria, famous for the Aretuza Academy of Magic near the region's capital in Gors Velen.
Following the devastation brought by the first phases of Northern War III it became known as No Man's Land, characterized by depopulated wastes overrun with armed men of all stripes: mercenaries, soldiers from the disbanded Temerian legions, marauders, and common bandits.
Overview
The land of Velen, located in western Temeria with its capital in Gors Velen, is one of the poorest provinces in the kingdom. Its territory encompasses the isle of Thanedd, home to the famous magic academy, which, along with Gors Velen, constitutes the commercial and developmental mainspring of the entire province. Velen is a stop on the Novigrad trade route running through Cidaris, Vergen, Brugge, Cintra and other such southerly realms.
Veleners subside primarily on agriculture, crafting and animal husbandry. The province is practically deprived of all natural resources. It contains a great deal of forests, wetlands and cultivated woods, though the greatest part of it is covered in swamps and bogs (...)Lands of the North: Velen
Provincial emblems
Coat of arms of Velen consists of an oak tree on silver and Temerian lilies on blue, denoting the region's ownership.
The coat of arms used on the map in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, as is the case with some of the other in-game emblems, approaches heraldic tradition in a slightly lax manner. Emblems in the infobox are drawn with aim to preserve the in-game COA's main theme while fitting the symbols of other Temerian regions.
Religion
 
Shrines to Melitele, the goddess of harvest, hearth, and fertility, are a frequently encountered element of the Temerian countryside. Simple statues carved of wood depict the goddess in one of three forms: Mother, Virgin, or Crone. Around these altars, local peasants place small offerings of food and drink in tribute, and light modest votive candles and lamps. Meanwhile, in Velen another religion has taken root, one which calls for prayers to be addressed to the Ladies of the Wood.
This cult's shrines show evidence of syncretism between the faiths: Melitele the Crone has become one of the Ladies, an old woman with sagging breasts and an open mouth full of crooked teeth. These statues are often stained with blood, both the caked residue of past sacrifices and the still-warm traces of new ones. Both religions are very old, dating back almost to the time of the first men, and so the design of the shrines conveys a somewhat archaic look. The rough-hewn wooden carvings recall ancient Slavic depictions of the gods.
In addition, priests from Novigrad and witch hunters are spreading belief of the Eternal Fire and its church while others, believing those in Velen needed to let go of their religion, sought to actively destroy the religious statues of Verna.
Notable places
Bleobheris Circle
Gors Velen
Thanedd Island
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
 
No gods nor masters watch over Velen. The land is no man's. He who wants to survive must seek his own protectors.
- Downwarren's ealdorman to Geralt, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
In The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, the former province has become a war-torn swampland under Nilfgaardian occupation with borders close to the cities of Novigrad and Oxenfurt. Its northern part (without Gors Velen and Thanedd Isle) is one of the major regions of the game, and its swamps with dense forests represent dark and mysterious elements of the plot.
Velen is where the forces of the Empire clashed with the armies of the Northern Kingdoms, forcing the battlefront both north and south, leaving the area which lies between a desolate wasteland. Its people were killed, raped and hanged – all the worst things imaginable. All these sufferings only added to the misery the people of Velen had to live through.
Neither the armies of the Northern Kingdom of Redania nor of Nilfgaard could achieve victory in their battles here. In the wake of both sides' temporary withdrawal, a semi-autonomous state under the leadership of Phillip Strenger - a former Temerian commander better known by the Bloody Baron moniker - has been established in Velen through decisive (if ruthless and amoral) action and force of arms, consisting of the remnants of the former Temerian army.
The Baron's rule is harsh, and perhaps reflective of the land itself. His men are ill-disciplined and overly fond of brutalising the local population. Law and order are in short supply, as are food and supplies. As such, Velen has become known as No Man's Land, a war-ravaged and unforgiving place, ruled over by a man of similar temperament. The Bloody Baron rules from Crow's Perch, a rundown fortress occupied by the Baron and his forces in the aftermath of the recent battles between Redania and Nilfgaard.
Map description
The former Temerian province of Velen has become a war-ravaged no man's land.
Notable people
Phillip Strenger
Anna Strenger
Johnny
Crones
Keira Metz
Locations
Grayrocks
Border Post
Calveit Watchtower
Codgers' Quarry
Devil's Pit
Ferry Station
Fireburst Harbor
Halver Isle
Hanged Man's Tree
Hindhold
Mulbrydale
Stonecutters' Settlement
Swamp Bint Harbor
White Eagle Fort
Crow's Perch
Abandoned Tower
Blackbough
Burned Ruins
Crow's Perch
Harpy Feeding Ground
Heatherton
Isolated Shack
Lornruk
Troll Bridge
Wolven Glade
Spitfire Bluff
Hangman's Alley
Coast of Wrecks
Condyle
Forest Hut
Keira Metz's hut
Midcopse
Pirate base
Refugees' Camp
Mudplough
Boris' camp
Inn at the Crossroads
Bald Mountain
Ancient Oak
Bald Mountain
Crossroads
Destroyed Bastion
Road to Bald Mountain
Crookback Bog
Downwarren
Dragonslayer's Grotto
House of Respite
Kimbolt Way
Nilfgaardian Army Group 'Center' Camp
Ruined Tower
The Orphans of Crookback Bog
The Mire
Bandits' Camp
Boatmakers' Hut
Byways
Claywich
Drudge
Duén Hen
Elven ruins near Lake Wyndamer
Frischlow
Fyke Isle
Honorton
Mire Landing
Olena's Grove
Oreton
Wastrel Manor
The Descent
Benek
Bird Island
Grotto
Lindenvale
Lurtch
Marauders' Bridge
Mowshurst
Reardon Manor
Temple of Lilvani 
Toderas
Trivia
The region is named after Velen, an elven holiday and Savaed. It could also be a reference to Veles, the Slavic god of earth and wetness.
In North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany there is a city named Velen.
Gallery
old elven statues throughout Velen
Footnotes
↑ The name of Temeria's province where Gors Velen is located isn't mentioned in the books; it was given a name in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt.
↑ Likely a misspelling – given the other mentioned states, it should be Verden
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
↑ The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt Artbook
↑ Stanislav Komárek's map
↑ A Tome of Chaos