Vengerberg
Vengerberg is the capital city of Aedirn and was once one of the richest and most populous metropolises (numbering six thousand inhabitants even after the evacuation) in the Northern Kingdoms.
A long-distance trade center crossed by many routes and trails, it has a well-developed industry and education institutions.
History

Foundation
According to some (not very reliable) sources, Vengerberg had been founded by Prince Venger in the 8th or 9th century, and became the seat of power of Aedirnian monarchs, like the famous Baldwin of Aedirn.
First Pogrom
Sometime in the 13th century, a pogrom erupted in the city against nonhumans. Yennefer of Vengerberg was involved, and saved the lives of Molnar Giancardi and his family, for which they repaid her for many years with donations.
Second Northern War
After the Nilfgaardian occupation of Aldersberg during the Second Northern War in mid-July 1267, Vengerberg had been besieged over a week's span and almost all of its inhabitants and garrison, roughly 6,000 citizens, were slaughtered by Nilfgaardians and Scoia'tael. Defeated regiments and civilians began to flee to Temeria and Redania, others heading along the Pontar Valley and the passes of Mahakam, though Nilfgaardian troops pursued, capturing many Aedirnians as slaves. Under Imperial occupation, on the orders of Chief Chamberlain Peter Evertsen, troops dismantled and removed the malt mills, distilleries, weaving mills, and dyeworks in the city.
Notable Vengerbergers
Yennefer
Demavend III
Olcan
Olsen
Stennis
Tybalt
Vara
Locations
Royal Castle
Pinacotheca
Marketplace
Vivaldi Bank (branch)
Yennefer's shop which sells magical beauty creams and oils
Numerous dyeworks, manufactures of wool and textiles, malt mills and distilleries
The Witcher Adventure Game
 
Vengerberg is one of main location in the board game. It is marked with the symbol of witcher sign "Quen" .
Surrounded by high mountains in the west, north and east, its northern road leads to Ellander (northwest) and Dol Blathanna (northeast), while its southern route are directed to Rivia. Track straight north from the city leads to ruins of Shaerrawedd.
Notes
In The Witcher, the city is presented on the world map as a city built on elven ruins, but Andrzej Sapkowski never said this in his books. The city could also have been built on dwarven foundation or simply by humans from scratch.
In The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings, the city is mentioned during Chapter II.
The demonym is "Vengerberger".
Footnotes
↑ In Time of Contempt, Vengerberg is told to be inhabited by 6,000 citizens; however the reason behind this exiguous amount may be the evacuation and the army draft due to the war.
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Time of Contempt
↑ 2.0 2.1 Blood of Elves