Vergen
Vergen is a dwarven town on the Aedirnian border. Boasting a unique architectural style, houses and buildings are carved in the rocks. The city is an important trade center, and has two fortified external gates: Mahakam Gate leading to borders with Kaedwen and the Metallurgists' Gate, linking the city with central Aedirn. The city has only one tavern and that is famous because Seltkirk of Gulet, a war hero, spent the last night of his life there.
History
Vergen was originally founded by dwarves who established mines in the surrounding hills. As was their custom, they carved their homes and community edifices directly into rock formations, granting Vergen a unique architectural style.
Residents
Cecil Burdon (ealdorman)
Haggard
Mantas Birut
Mael
Olcan Grandemot
Saesenthessis
Skalen Burdon
Spark
Bruno Biggs
Corden
Cornelius Meyer
Dalin
Percy of Woodham
Stel Placeholdern
Young Zin
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
Vergen appears as one of two major locations during Chapter II with second being Kaedweni camp on fog's other side.
Locations
In town:
The Cauldron, Vergen's inn
Philippa's quarters
Saskia's quarters
Rhundurin Square, Vergen's marketplace
Metallurgists' Gate
Mahakam Gate
Old Gate
Castle of the Three Fathers
Tunnel of the Founders
Mines of Vergen
Olcan's house
Outside town:
Burned village
Elthon's hut
Old quarry
Harpy lair
Dwarven catacombs
Troll lair
Wreck of the Eyla Tarn
Journal entry
This town in the North of Aedirn was founded by dwarves who established mines in the surrounding hills. As was their custom, they carved their homes and community edifices directly into rock formations, granting Vergen a unique architectural style. The town was an important trade center, one of the roads through it leading into the country's interior. Humans had also attempted to settle in the area, but the disturbances that plagued Pontar Valley left most of their villages burned and in ruins. Nevertheless, when we arrived in Vergen it was teeming with humans in addition to its mainly dwarven population. Saskia's peasant rebels and a group of Aedirnian nobles had made camp there and promptly begun to measure each other with menacing glares. Meanwhile, all the groups that had assembled in the area were mistrustful of Iorveth's Scoia'tael, who strove to keep to themselves with unmistakably elven aloofness. Truly, if not for Henselt's army making camp nearby, the whole rabble would have been at each other's throats in no time.
If Geralt chooses Roche's path during the end of Chapter I:
Despite demonstrating unparalleled valor, the hastily recruited units of peasant militiamen, knights without title or estate, and Scoia'tael guerillas could not withstand Henselt's army of experienced, battle-hardened Kaedweni veterans. Vergen fell after mounting a heroic defense, though the victory cost the attackers dearly.
If Geralt chooses Iorveth's path during the end of Chapter I:
Peasant militia units, knights without title or estate, and seasoned dwarven volunteers fought heroically, side by side, forcing the Kaedweni veterans to pay for every inch of ground with their blood. Yet the hour of doom seemed nigh, the battle's outcome inevitable. That is, until Iorveth arrived with Scoia'tael reinforcements - just in time to turn the tide. Vergen won its independence with courage, steel, and the blood of the fallen.
Gallery
The Colonel Barclay Els arrives in Vergen.