Vicovaro
Vicovaro is one of the southernmost vassal states in the Nilfgaardian Empire.
It is famous for its own Academy of Magic, as well as the medical academy founded by Emperor Jan Calveit in the region's capital. Vicovarians, while Nilfgaardized, are still proud of their motherland's heritage.
History
The country's history goes back to ancient times, when Lower Alban tribes were influenced by its culture. The early Vicovarian achievements became a part of the future Nilfgaardian heritage. Over the course of centuries, Vicovaro had slowly embraced elements of the Nilfgaardian Republic's culture as well.
In the second half of the 12th century, Vicovaro was seized by Emperor Torres's armies, but the invader was forced to retreat. However, after witnessing the fate of Etolia, conquered by Emperor Fergus, Vicovarian nobles influenced their ruler and Vicovaro asked to join Nilfgaard willingly, on its own initiative.
In 1267, veteran shieldbearers from Vicovaro marched alongside Etolian troops during the Second Northern War.
Geography and climate
Vicovaro borders the core region of the Empire and likely the duchies of Rowan and Ymlac. The land is warm and hilly and the climate allows the cultivation of the mandrake.
Society and culture
People of Vicovaro live plentiful, stable lives, as long as they pay due respect to the nobles and to Nilfgaard. Many nobles have large, defensible castles in the mountains. They educate their children and send the smartest and most socially adept to the Imperial Academy at Castel Graupian. It is no mistake that these young people return home with a solid knowledge of Nilfgaardian etiquette and contacts in the Nilfgaardian nobility. This strategy allows Vicovaro to place many Vicovarians in not only the provincial government but the Nilfgaardian government as well.
National emblems
Emblems in the infobox combine Vicovaro's symbols from both Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni and The Witcher Role-Playing Game. The original creator of the COA which was basis for The Witcher Role-Playing Game one was Mboro, who in turn based his project on the COA of real-world's Vicovaro.
Notable locations
City of Vicovaro
Magic Academy
 Dyffra
Darn Dyffra
Notable Vicovarians
For a full list of Vicovarians, see Category:Vicovarians.
Unnamed duchess
Aillil aep Ceallach
Assire var Anahid
Cahir Mawr Dyffryn aep Ceallach
Ceallach aep Gruffyd
Dheran aep Ceallach
Flourens Delannoy
Trivia
The name of the duchy could be a reference to an Italian city with the same name.
Gallery
Vicovaro medicVicovaro novice
Footnotes
↑ The Witcher Role-Playing Game doesn't specify whether the whole land of Vicovaro was conguered, or just its capital of identical name.
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Witcher Role-Playing Game
↑ Gwent: The Witcher Card Game
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Wiedźmin: Gra Wyobraźni
↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Baptism of Fire
↑ Time of Contempt