Vlodimir von Everec
No one accuses Vlodimir von Everec of cowardice, not a soul!
- Gwent: The Witcher Card GameAudio version: Media:Vlodimir von Everec voice line.mp3
Vlodimir von Everec (Polish: Witold von Everec), was a nobleman of the Von Everec family, and former second-in-command of the Redanian Free Company. He was the second son of Kristina and Bohumil, and the younger brother of Olgierd von Everec with whom he grew up with on their family's estate.
Biography
From youth, Vlodimir terrorized and plundered borderland villages as part of a band of raiders lead by his brother Olgierd, and acted as his second-in-command. Though Vlodimir admitted some of the group could be described as "mindless brawlers", he protested witcher Geralt of Rivia's use of the word "bandit" to describe his brother. Vlodimir loved and respected his brother greatly, and admired his curiosity and taste in art.
Vlodimir met his death in an ambush during a raid on a village. Confronted by five men, he ran and tried to hide in a cellar, but was found and had his skull crushed. However, Olgierd told everyone a more heroic version of his death, in which Vlodimir fearlessly rushed at his five opponents.
According to Premethine Shakeslock, Vlodimir's death was the result of the pact Olgierd had made with Gaunter O'Dimm. Olgierd wanted his family fortune restored, but in exchange O'Dimm demanded he sacrifice the life of a loved one. Olgierd chose Vlodimir.
After his death, Vlodimir's spirit lingered. Olgierd would often visit his brother's resting place in the family crypt, pour him a drink, and keep him company while getting drunk. Though Olgierd could neither see or hear his brother's spirit, Vlodimir heard everything his brother told him during these visits.
Years after Vlodimir's death, Geralt used a Blood Ritual to summon his spirit. In order to fulfil Olgierd's request of showing Vlodimir the time of his life Geralt had to allow Vlodimir to posses his body and allow him to carouse until midnight. Towards the end of the night, Vlodimir penned a letter to his brother in a moment of inspiration. After midnight, after Vlodimir was reluctant to give Geralt back his body as agreed, Gaunter O'Dimm banished him, causing him great pain in the process.
By nature, Vlodimir was self-confident, even brash. He enjoyed life's simple pleasures, including drink and the company of women, and fancied himself quite the womanizer. Even Shani, who had to repel the dead man's advances more than once during his evening out, thought him likeable and remarked that Vlodimir must've been "a real hoot" while alive.
Journal entry
Geralt was tasked with finding Vlodimir von Everec and showing him the time of his life. This would have been one of the witcher's least remarkable missions – had not Vlodimir been dead for years at this point. The mysterious Master Mirror did not think this much of an obstacle, however. He handed Geralt a vial of von Everec blood and told him of an incantation which would summon Vlodimir from the grave. Geralt thus journeyed to the von Everec family crypt and sought out the younger von Everec's place of burial.
Geralt's meeting with Vlodimir began with a fight against other deceased members of the von Everec clan. Only after they were defeated did Vlod reveal himself, explaining he'd refused to fight alongside his dead kin as he'd never been particularly fond of them. Overall Olgierd's brother cut a strange figure, even for a ghost. He showed hints of noble refinement, but often his mannerisms better resembled those of a lifelong brawler or hooligan – no doubt because he had spent much of his living years raiding and marauding with a band of rough characters.
One thing is certain: Vlodimir liked to have a good time and had found death sorely lacking in quality entertainment. His demands for his night of fun were simple. He mainly wanted to get well and thoroughly plastered and... well, let us say the dead man's inability to enter into relations with the fairer sex had tormented him terribly. All in all, after hearing Geralt relate Vlodimir's complaints about the afterlife, I feared death all the more...
Vlodimir jumped into Geralt's body and together they accompanied Shani to her friend's wedding. There Vlod found more than enough entertainment to scratch his itch. He dove for slippers in a pond, played gwent, drank enough for three horses, chased pigs and even managed to steal a kiss from Shani.
When midnight struck, the capping ceremony began and Vlodimir von Everec's time among the living came to an end. Yet the witcher's skin had felt so good on him, he had no intention of shedding it. Only the appearance of Master Mirror finally forced Vlodimir back whence he came. In Geralt's account, Master Mirror caused Vlod's ghost a great deal of pain while banishing him. I do not know exactly how one can cause a disembodied spirit pain, but clearly Master Mirror knew a way. He was strange, that one. Even thinking about him now gives me goosebumps.
Associated quest
Dead Man's Party
Trivia
In the Polish edition of the game, his first name is Witold instead of Vlodimir. Probably because his name Witold (Vytautas) and his brother name Olgierd (Algirdas) are reference to Lithuanian Grand Dukes.
Notes
If Geralt takes him to Draken Hollow Outpost, kills the forktail and clears out the monster nest, Vlodimir will appear and mention how exciting it was.
In game files there is a human model but can only be accessed by mods.
On normal gameplay the letter he writes to Olgierd at the party isn't accessible, but through console commands it can be added to one's inventory and read.
Vlodimir is technically the third character players have direct control of, the other two being Geralt and Ciri in the base game.
Gallery
Gwent card art