White Raffard's Decoction

The Witcher
"White Raffard, a famous mage of times long past, developed a healing potion for the human warriors who conquered the new world for their race ages ago. Witchers have found new, more efficient ways to produce White Raffard's Decoction, using ingredients obtained from monsters. Classic witcher training suggests that the Swallow potion be consumed simultaneously, for White Raffard's Decoction is highly toxic."
White Raffard's Decoction immediately restores a majority of Vitality lost through combat.
Source
Formula for White Raffard's Decoction
There is one flask of this potion in a trunk in the Cemetery crypt, first accessible in Chapter II.
Receiving this potion from the druids in Chapter V, during "The Green March" will unlock the formula if you did not have it already.
Notes
The potion randomly restores between 50-60% of Geralt's current health. Meaning if Geralt's maximum HP is 100 it restores between 50-60 HP, while if he has 500 HP then between 250-300 HP.
This is one of the few potions that some merchants will buy (and rarer still, sell):
Vesemir looks in vain for White Raffard's Decoction to help Leo in the Prologue.
Geralt does find some of these in his travels, before he knows what it is. Drinking it identifies it of course, but it is best to do so at the appropriate moment, or risk wasting a decent, if toxic, emergency potion.
You can create White Raffard's Decoction using only ingredients with Albedo and then sell these potions to the Murky Waters blacksmith for 60 (+20 more) orens.
You can create White Raffard's Decoction using only ingredients with Nigredo and then sell these potions to Kalkstein or the Murky Waters blacksmith for 60 (+20 more) orens. Even if you buy all the ingredients (exchanging cheap food for Mistletoe for instance) it can prove to be quite profitable (even moreso if you opt to only use ingredients obtained with effort and not gold).
You can create White Raffard's Decoction using only ingredients with Rubedo and then sell these potions to the Order Armorer, the waitresses at The Hairy Bear, The New Narakort, Country Inn, the Hermit in the Fields, the Murky Waters blacksmith for 60 (+20 more) orens.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings
The formula for this potion must be acquired before it can be brewed.
Journal entry
Invented by a famous mage, this potion helps the witcher survive wounds that would normally be lethal to him. The buzz from this powerful brew, however, adversely affects coordination. After consuming it, although he is fortified, the witcher deals reduced damage for a short time. This side effect can be alleviated by drinking the Rook potion.
This potion very significantly increases Toxicity when imbibed.
It should be consumed before fights that could prove particularly difficult.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
White Raffard's Decoction returns as a potion in the third game, though this time it can be upgraded twice to give back more vitality. Two of these can be crafted at any one time and placed in the consumables slot.
Crafting Requirements 
Dwarven spirit× 1 Dwarven spirit × 1
Ribleaf× 2 Ribleaf × 2
Nekker heart× 4 Nekker heart × 4
Notes
Unlike most other potions, this potion's charges only increase to three with the superior version.
See also
Enhanced White Raffard's Decoction
Superior White Raffard's Decoction