White Frost
White Frost, or White Chill, is one of the omens prophesied by Ithlinne as heralding the beginning of the end of the world. Many attributed climate changes to the prophecy.
As stated by Avallac'h and Nimue, the White Frost is a poetic metaphor for an upcoming ice age caused by changes in the planet's orbit and axis, which would cause most of the northern hemisphere to freeze around 3.000 years after Nimue's life. The apocalypse could not be prevented, neither by mages, Aen Saevherne, nor even Ciri. The only salvation was to open the Ard Gaeth portals by Elder Blood so that people of the Continent could move to another world.
It is believed, however, that after some time the world would reborn under the "new sun", in a completely different form.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
The White Frost is a phenomenon that results in the freezing of entire planets. While the most powerful magics may seemingly slow its pace on a regional level, it is widely understood to be an inevitable end of all worlds. Whether this is the result of a natural force, a malevolent entity, or an entirely different cause is not revealed.
While trying to reach the world of the Aen Elle elves, Geralt and Avallac'h transition to Tedd Deireadh, a world completely consumed by the White Frost. Documents found here tell of the White Frost process as being slow and steady, manifesting as unending snowfall. This eventually leads to the cessation of all settlement sustaining activities, and the supplies of survivors inevitably dwindle until exhaustion, followed by death.
After the defeat of the Wild Hunt, another Conjunction of the Spheres begins, and Avallac'h and Ciri head to a tower on Undvik to halt the White Frost. Ciri, being the last vessel of the Elder blood, heads through a portal to confront the White Frost. Depending on whether Geralt chose to show that he cherishes Ciri, that he trusts her judgement and encourages her confidence or not, Ciri will survive or die in the confrontation.
There is also a book found in Ermion's laboratory in keep of Kaer Trolde describing the phenomenon. Weight of book is 0.26 and base price is 10.
Trivia
The White Frost is akin to the Fimbulwinter, a catastrophic winter prophesied in Norse mythology which will end all life in the world and precede the Ragnarök.
References
↑ The Tower of the Swallow
↑ The Lady of the Lake
External links
 See the GWENT standalone game version card: White Frost