Wine Wars: Belgaard
Wine Wars: Belgaard is a secondary quest in the Blood and Wine expansion. It consists of two parts.
Announcement from the Office of Internal Revenue of the Duchy of Toussaint
The Office of Internal Revenue hereby announces a limited live auction to be held regarding the sale of a piece of developed real estate and accompanying agricultural land located in the Caroberta Woods region, having been left to the Ducal Treasury by the late Count Crespi, who departed this world without any heirs. Due to the unique nature of the Belgaard Estate and its important role in the production of wine bringing great fame to the duchy in all corners of the world, only subjects of the Duchy of Toussaint shall be allowed to participate in the auction.
To all knights errant and other such men of arms - be it known far and wide that the services of voluntary keepers of the peace shall be needed. Minor problems are expected to arise during the transfer of the above-mentioned real estate, and said problems, for their dissolution, could require the application of direct physical force. All volunteers are asked to report to the field office of the Procurator General of Toussaint near Plegmund's Bridge, that is to say, to the place where the auction shall be held.
Walkthrough
The quest can be started by picking up a notice from pretty much any notice board in Toussaint, or simply meeting the people at its starting point.
First Part
For the first part of the quest, simply make your way to Plegmund's Bridge, where Liam and Matilda are arguing over who gets to buy Belgaard Vineyard. Once you approach them, it'll automatically go into a small cutscene before Liam asks you to help him out. If agreed to, he will then give the quest Wine Wars: Coronata. Afterwards, Matilda gets your attention and asks you to help her out as well. If you agree to help her, she'll give Wine Wars: Vermentino. They will accuse each other of sabotage, but that won't prevent Geralt from helping both.
After the conversations with Liam and Matilda, this quest will complete. It however will come back again later with additional objectives.
Note that a number of quests and paths will open up based on what actions are taken that will decide who becomes Belgaard's new owner for the second part of the quest:
Only help one of the vineyards and turn in before completing the other's: the owner that was helped and turned in (Liam or Matilda) will become Belgaard's new, sole owner. Completing the other's tasks after this will not allow them to join forces nor help end their feud.
Help both vineyards but didn't investigate the sabotage prior to turning both in: both Liam and Matilda will begrudgingly enter a partnership to run Belgaard together. Note you can still do Wine Wars: The Deus in the Machina after this point but won't learn the truth to end their feud.
Help both vineyards and completed Wine Wars: The Deus in the Machina before turning in their quests: Liam and Matilda will gladly enter a partnership to run Belgaard together. If not all tasks have been done yet, their tasks will combine into Wine Wars: Consorting but it's effectively the same as their separate quests.
Second Part
Regardless if you did Wine Wars: The Deus in the Machina and who you helped (or didn't), you'll be asked if you can help out further with Belgaard. If you agree, 5 more tasks are given.
Vineyard infestation northeast of Belgaard Manor
An endrega warrior, drone and two workers have infested this part. Take them out and destroy the nest for 20. You can also loot Thierry Pires' journal from the nearby body if you wish, though it's not needed for anything.
Guarded treasure west of Gélenser Farm
Kill the two giant centipedes and loot the body for the letter to Gregory Pyxide.
Person(s) in distress on the beach north-northeast of Termes Palace Ruins
Five bandits have captured Belgaard's blacksmith. When the bandits are disposed of, he will give you the option to go back to Belgaard with him, but you can stay with no repercussions.
Monster nest northeast of Tesham Mutna Ruins, southeast of Francollarts
Kill the two giant centipedes and destroy their nest. There's a body nearby with a List bearing Belgaard's seal.
Abandoned site at Tilly Field, southeast of Hortense Vineyard
A lone slyzard is here. Once it's dead, time will pass like a normal abandoned site, but there's no for liberating it. Afterwards, you can loot one of the bodies in the cart for a letter bearing Castel Ravello's seal.
Once done, make your way back to Belgaard Vineyard to turn in the quest for 150 and the promised payment. If you ended Liam and Matilda's feud, they will ask for you to visit later as they have a surprise for you. If so, return in 3 days and they'll reveal they've created a new wine and want you to have the honor of naming it. You can choose between Geralt of Rivia, White Wolf, or Butcher of Blaviken. The first two have the same stats, but the Butcher of Blaviken gives better regeneration.
Journal entry

First Part
Perusing a notice board in Toussaint, Geralt found the appeal of a ducal clerk. The clerk was seeking all manner of vagabonds, knights errant and mercenaries. The posting did not seem to be an offer of witcher's work, even so Geralt decided to learn more about this mystery job.
The clerk needed assistance. He was to find a new owner and steward for the Belgaard Vineyard, which at the time remained the property of the duchy. The owners of two other vineyards were competing for control of Belgaard. They were Matilda Vermentino and Liam de Coronata.
Second Part
Only if Geralt goes to the Vineyard by himself:
Geralt had become deeply involved in the matter of the Belgaard Vineyard's transfer to a new owner. So when the ducal clerk asked him for yet another favor, he could hardly refuse and promised to visit the estate that was said to produce exceptional wine...
Belgaard had been the jewel of Toussaint's crown of vineyards. Yet since the death of its owner, Count Crespi, it had fallen on hard times. The ducal clerk had been tasked with finding a new steward, but only one who stood to restore Belgaard's reputation and fame. 
If Geralt helps...
...Liam:
Upon arriving, Geralt saw at once that he would have much to do here, too. The vineyard was in serious trouble. Liam promptly promised a bulbous purse, so the witcher once again agreed to help.
Naturally, the witcher rose to the challenge. But would you ever expect anything less? He rid Belgaard of its problems and the vineyard could shine once more. Pleased with the developments, the ducal clerk could now hand the title to the vineyard to the ambitious Liam, who in turn rewarded the witcher generously. Our hero thus set off on his Path, pleased with himself for a job well done.
...Matilda:
Whether she liked it or not, Matilda Vermentino was once again forced to ask the witcher for help...
Naturally, the witcher rose to the challenge. But would you ever expect anything less? He rid Belgaard of its problems and the vineyard could shine once more. Pleased with the developments, the ducal clerk could now hand the title to the vineyard to the ambitious Matilda, who in turn rewarded the witcher generously. Our hero thus set off on his Path, pleased with himself for a job well done.
...both but didn't complete Wine Wars: The Deus in the Machina:
The inspection yielded one conclusion - Liam de Coronata's and Matilda Vermentino's newly formed consortium faced quite the challenge. and the witcher once again had much to do...
Naturally, the witcher rose to the challenge. But would you ever expect anything less? He did Liam and Matilda a vast favor, yet this did little to mend their tenuous relationship. Belgaard's new co-owners remained aloof towards one another. The witcher could only hope that their working side by side would in time foster greater trust.
...both and ended the feud between Liam and Matilda:
The inspection yielded only one conclusion - Liam de Coronata's and Matilda Vermentino's newly formed consortium faced quite the challenge. And the witcher once again had much to do...
Thanks to the witcher, the Belgaard Vineyard could shine once more. Relations between Liam and Matilda were also improving, the two young co-owners now clearly fond of one another. After paying the witcher a generous reward, they asked him to look in on them in a while, promising a surprise...
This tale had begun with wine and vineyards, and it was with wine in a vineyard that it came to an end. The wine in question had been made with Geralt in mind. It was final proof of Matilda Vermentino's and Liam de Coronata's gratitude. For the witcher had not only helped them grow their enterprise, he had also caused them to realize they had feelings for one another - feelings that now sprouted and bloomed. Quite the matchmaker Geralt proved to be. Who could've known?
Objectives
First part:
Go to the place where the auction will be held.
Second part:
Go to Belgaard.
Solve all of Belgaard vineyard's problems. 0/5
If Geralt only helped Liam:
Go see Liam. (150)
If Geralt only helped Matilda:
Go see Matilda. (150)
If Geralt helped both but didn't complete Deus in the Machina:
Go see Liam and Matilda. (150)
If Geralt ended Liam and Matilda's feud:
Go see Liam and Matilda. (150)
Wait 3 days, then go see Liam and Matilda.
Go see Liam and Matilda.
Notes
If you wish to end the feud, it's vital to do Wine Wars: The Deus in the Machina before turning in Liam's or Matilda's quest and mentioning you know who was behind the sabotage of both vineyards.
Right after you finish the second part, Belgaard's banner will change to reflect its new owner(s).
If you ended the feud and picked a wine name, go speak to Barnabas-Basil Foulty. He'll inform you of the wine shipment which you can now find as a set of barrels in the cellar that glow red with Witcher Senses. After this, you can get 5 bottles of it every week. You aren't required to visit your cellar every 7 days to collect them though. The wine supply keeps building over time, and once it reaches 18 bottles, it will create a new stack.
It is possible, though difficult, to milk Liam and Matilda for up 3,000 . First you need both to agree to pay you 900 for resolving the issues at their respective vineyards, and later have them agree to pay you 1,200 for resolving the issues at Belgaard. However, getting them to agree to pay 900 is pretty rare and you need both to agree at the same time so the odds are against you, while having them agree to pay 1,200 for helping at Belgaard is very rare.
It's fairly easy though, and much less tedious, to haggle up to 2,850 by first having them pay 850 for their respective quests and then haggle 1,150 for helping with Belgaard.
Bugs
Once the quest completes, the blacksmith at Belgaard will disappear.
When returning to turn in the quest, at least in the case where Liam and Matilda's feud was ended, Geralt's opening voice line in English says "Belgrad" (the Serbian capital) instead of "Belgaard".