World
The Witcher series take place on an unnamed planet referred to by its people as the World, the Earth or the Globe. Approximately 90% of land is on the northern hemisphere.
Astronomic characteristics
The globe orbits a star referred to by its inhabitants as the Sun or Feainn. It has one moon. Unlike on Earth, each month begins at the new moon, and the full moon can last a couple of nights, usually around the 17th. The months April and August have 30 days.
The orbit is eliptic. Due to its (cyclical) instability and disproportion between landmasses in both hemispheres, it is believed that about 3,000 years after the life of Nimue verch Wledyr ap Gwyn most of the north will enter an Ice Age, believed to be the White Frost from Ithlinne's Prophecy.
Continents and oceans

Southern Hemisphere
The Southern Hemisphere is mainly covered by vast ocean. During the Northern Hemisphere's winter, the hot air masses from the Southern Hemisphere flow along the sea currents to the north, where they condensate and subsequently freeze, causing snowfall. It is not much known about the lands located there though some of the Far South lands may be partially located here.
Northern Hemisphere
The Northern Hemisphere has much more land than the southern one. The most known is called the Continent and comprises of Northern and Eastern Lands, the Nilfgaardian Empire, and the Far North. Adjacent to it from the west are the Skellige Isles and from the south the lands of Barsa, Hannu, Ofir, and Zangvebar, which may be partially located on the Southern Hemisphere. West to the Continent, across the Great Sea, lies the Western Continent discovered by Fabio Sachs; its eastern part is known as the Eastern Coast.
The ancestral lands of the Nordlings likely lie west to the Continent as well.
Notes
Both Nordlings and Nilfgaardians refer to areas they are not sure the location of as "beyond the seas".
According to one of the interviews with Andrzej Sapkowski, he originally intended the world of the Witcher to be our own prehistoric Earth, but he changed his mind.