Zireael (sword)
Zireael (Polish: Jaskółka, Elder Speech: Swallow) is the nickname for Ciri's sword. A 200 year old gwyhyr, a very expensive and precious type of blade only forged by the gnomes of Tir Tochair, the sword was made with dark iron and the shape of the blade resembled a flame, as is common in gnomic tradition. On the blade were many engraved floral decorations and a tower with a swallow on the top.
In late 1267, Esterhazy, a very noted sword salesman in the town of Fano, gave it to Ciri as a gift, when she had been captured by Leo Bonhart. Ciri was then forced by Bonhart to fight with this sword, under the effects of Fisstech, in the Claremont arena owned by his cousin Houvenaghel.
Ironically, early the following year during the assault at Stygga Castle, Bonhart was killed by Ciri with this sword.
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt
In-game, the name "Zireael" refers to two weapons that Ciri uses. The first one is a steel sword, which Ciri uses during her quests. The second is a silver sword that can be seen and given to Ciri in one of the endings to the game.
Steel sword
Zireael is a unique steel sword that Ciri uses during her quests, named after the same sword from the books given to her by Leo Bonhart.
Until Patch 4.01, the sword could be obtained by Geralt by using an exploit that allowed the player to "store" it in the stash while playing as Ciri during the quest Ciri's Story: Breakneck Speed, by going back to the Rosemary and Thyme and drop it near the stash, as explained in this video. This was partially prevented in Patch 4.0 by adding invisible walls and instadeath zones, making it significantly harder, but still doable. It was further patched in v4.01 by modifying the "exploitable" area near Temple Isle to be an instadeath zone during the quest, preventing any option of free roaming. However it was still possible to do this exploit by jumping out of Whoreson's window during the earlier quest Ciri's Story: Visiting Junior and backtracking to the Rosemary and Thyme with the same steps. With further changes in v4.01, the window is now closed after defeating Junior, and the sword can no longer be dropped at any storage box in the game, as well as not being able to be picked up at sword racks or boxes in saved games from older versions in the updated patch.
Notes
This sword appears with a permanent 25% Attack power versus Cursed Ones when in Geralt's inventory if you chose to do the optional step of applying oil to the blade during Ciri's Story: The King of the Wolves.
Silver sword
Zireael is a unique silver sword that can be seen in one of the endings to The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt.
The sword is given to Geralt by Master Ort at the now-abandoned Nilfgaardian Garrison at White Orchard. It can only be obtained if the Witcher ending of the game is achieved. The sword does no damage in combat as it is intended to be given to Ciri, as a fitting way to start her witcher career.
The weapon's craftsman, Master Ort, remarks that "no witcher has, or ever had, a better weapon", when he presents it to Geralt. Zireael has a 38½ inch blade, a silver-plated siderite steel core, and glyphs and runes throughout the length of the blade, and on the hilt.
The sword may have one of two possible inscriptions in Elder Runes, depending on the dialogue option that is chosen. Zireael, meaning "Swallow" in Common Speech, is one possibility. The other is Dubhenn haern am glâdeal, morc'h am fhean aiesin which translates to "the flash that cuts through darkness, the light that breaks the night".
Associated quest
Something Ends, Something Begins